# 20200422 Governance Working Group Call 9

Lane (@lrettig) is moderating today.

Lane: Hi everybody. Welcome to governance working group call number nine. I'm Lane and I'm going to be moderating this call.

## Agenda

https://github.com/stacksgov/pm/issues/31

## Intro

Lane: we have some new faces today, which is really exciting, I'm really excited to see some more folks joining us so would people be okay if we do the intros, we haven't done them for a while. Maybe take 30-45 seconds to just briefly tell us your name and what you're working on, and maybe your role in the blockstack ecosystem.

Lane: I'll just in the interest of time, I'll go down the list as I see them on my screen. So Jason, you wanna go first.

### Jason Schrader

Jason: Sure. So quick intro on my end, I've been a network admin and IT guy for about 15 years.I stumbled across blockstack early this year and I fell in love. So I've been learning a lot and been a big part of the community. For this initiative in particular I help out a lot with managing the GitHub and just really enjoy watching this evolve and unfold as we're doing something new. So that's, that's my quick intro.

Lane: Thank you, Jason. That was awesome now it's going to Kieran. Am I saying your name correctly?

### Kieran Alexis

Kieran: Yeah, that's right. Yep.

Kieran: Hi I'm Kieran. I'm interested in blockstack from quite a while back, maybe a couple of years ago looking at sort of storage stuff and identity stuff. I looked the other day and we have some stuff in 2017 so quite a long time and I've written some kind of fan writing about it and you know kind of got closer and closer, managed to get myself through the zero to dapp course. And he got the t shirt, which was hugely motivating and kind of got me dragged into github and kind of all up to relative speed with this. I'm really interested in governance and that's why I'm on this initiative.

Lane: Yeah. Welcome. Great to have you. Thanks for joining us. I love the t shirt story that's so wonderful.

Lane: Now, Jenny.

### Jenny Mith

Jenny: Hey everyone, I'm Jenny and I help with the community stuff at blockstack and it's been awesome. The last few months just seeing all the progress in the working groups. Helping our core community members coordinate on working groups and we're constantly [tackling] the biggest problems that this ecosystem is facing. And particularly interested in the governance as well. I think blockstack is doing a lot of special stuff and the work with this group is doing in particular is going to be key to making sure that work is successful, especially ahead of the stacks two mainnet launch, which is coming up pretty soon, and the testnet launch, which is coming up this week. It has been really great work with everyone and happy to to help everyone keep coordinating this awesome work that we're doing.

Lane: Thanks, Jenny, we're super thankful to have your contributions as well. And yeah, thanks for the reminders. A lot of exciting stuff happening in in the blockstack community right now, lots to talk about, now Brittany.

### Brittany Laughlin

Brittany: I work at blockstack PBC right now doing strategic partnerships and I'm going to be actually leaving PBC soon to help start the new entity. That is the foundation, which is where we'll have a lot of this governance action sort of happening and more focus on developer education. So really excited to be able to work with this group to, you know, as one kickoff that entity, but also the ongoing decisions and governance as the project evolves, thanks.

Lane: So super exciting. Thank you, Brittany. Now Juliet.

### Juliet Oberding

Juliet: Good morning, everyone. I'm Juliet, I am a former lawyer, startup founder, and then in the blockstack community, I'm a evangelist and an app founder as well. And part of the governance working group and helping out here helping Lane and Jason with whatever they need help with. I'm passionate about privacy and all the things you were talking about at the beginning of the call [before the recording] and excited to see what's happening next with blockstack and all the different areas and working groups as well as the stacks foundation.

Lane: Awesome. Thank you. Yeah, I definitely echo your sentiments. Let's go to Matt.

### Matt Kirincic

Matt: Hi everyone. I am Matt Kirincic, I'm based here in New York. I've been interested in blockstack for for quite a while now, and I've been a casual observer of this group, since it started up. By the way the YouTube videos are awesome, because that's kind of how I've gotten up to speed and I watched through all them. I've been interested in governance, I kind of have a background in politics and some other things like that. And I've also gotten involved with some other governance projects. So I'd love to kind of contribute wherever I can.

Lane: Awesome. yeah. Welcome to the group super excited to have you in your expertise here. And for anyone else who may be watching this video on YouTube. There you have it. You can you can jump in and join the calls as well as participate. Thanks, Matt. And last but not least, Phillip.

### Phillip Roe

Phillip: Good morning to all and and I'm happy to participate here in the governance group. I am based in Santiago, Chile in South America, and so I am interested in all this related topics, about governance as it is very important in order to make all the system survive and as an app founder, we have our application Paradigma Crosscheck. So we have been facing the challenge of if this eco system doesn't survive, then it would effect that. So that's also very important for us to participate now and I've been involved even with my few years of experience and many information, many of these governance institutions in Latin America, mainly and around the world but, most of them in betterment of the world so happy to see a ways of helping if there's a possibility. So it's wonderful to participate and participation is one of the key aspects that been promoted here in this group and also all the working group that we have seen in blockstack. I'm very excited to see the outcome of this and also today in that we're in an hour more giving a presentation about proof of transfer here in Chile, and then I will dedicate one page or two so that people can fill up the survey that we are conducting here in the working group.

Lane: Amazing. Thanks for the update. Yeah, so my next or I guess first agenda item is the updates / stand ups and so Philip I guess you kind of kicked us off here by sharing what you're up to today. Do you want to share any other updates with the group or any blockers anything people can help you with?

## Standup!

### Phillip Roe

Phillip: I would think about the language problem because, you know, I've seen my own colleagues taking, because I am the face of the group of we're working so because you know that their, their English skills are much less than mine. And so, they they can read, maybe they can write. And sometimes, you know, looks like the writing part also not so fluent, but then they don't participate directly. So that's one of the aspects. We're thinking of in terms of the survey. We should just put out a message at the beginning that they should answer in their own language and then whenever we see that, and then we decided, you know, we have to translate because then on this page that I'm presenting and just telling the people you know that being involved, just put it in Spanish. If they prefer. Because what we need is more the concept and ideas and all that. Well, I've been giving this presentation in Spanish. So in order to increase the level of knowledge on in Spanish, because it's big in Latin America.

Kieran: It seems unfair that the document is not in Spanish.

Lane: So we actually have a separate agenda item to talk about exactly this problem. So if you guys were okay with that let's let's circle back to this point in a moment because it is an important one.

Lane: Before we do that, though, does anyone else have any updates they want to share about stuff that happened over the past week things they've been working on things they could use help with. Feel free to just jump in.

### Kieran

Kieran: the one thing I did do was play around with the notes on my Mac OS, you know, successful battle what you'd kind of need. What a casual user would need to install to run the testnet.

Lane: Cool exciting. Thanks for sharing that. Just wait a moment and see if anyone else wants to share any other updates. Before we move on.

### Lane

Lane: We made some progress on GitHub. I think we had some open PRs in the resources repository. I know that Juliet And Jason reviewed a couple of things I had opened, and I think I reviewed and merged a couple of things they had open. So there's been some consolidation of resources like notes from previous calls we have merged, the standard operating procedures document. I think it has been merged right?

Jason: Yeah. That should be in, I believe it lives in the project management repository. So I can try and drop a link into that real quick.

https://github.com/stacksgov/pm/blob/master/sop.md

Lane: Go for it. Yeah, so that's one little piece of progress over the past week check this document out if you haven't had a chance yet to. We just want to make sure there's no bottlenecks and make sure everything is as open as possible and make sure that anybody can jump in and help with the project management and help with things like running calls and helping out with the working group. So we tried to document that stuff. There's the link. Thank you, Jason.

Lane: Okay, if there's no other updates. Then the next topic is the Community Survey.

## Community survey

Lane: We discussed this every week I'll double check the numbers again now but as yeah let me pull up the numbers. Okay. So I see 45 responses so that we could start with, I think eight from inside the working group, so if my math is not wrong, that's 37 since we released it. Which is which is pretty solid.

Lane: Yeah, when this topic comes up on the calls, I usually say something along the lines of, you know, what's our target and when do we want to start looking at the results. And what do we want to do with them. I opened an issue in the PM repository laying out exactly those questions yesterday, so people could ... Go ahead. Hi, Jenny.

Jenny: Quick note on that. So, the quarterly updates email they've mentioned before, it's been a little held up but it's meant to go out today. There should be an uptick in responses when that goes out.

Lane: Perfect. Thank you Jenny that's super exciting. Yeah. So let's maybe wait another week to discuss the survey. I think we'll have a lot more information by this time next week.

Lane: Okay, the next topic is the blog post outline. This is something that I believe Jenny proposed a few weeks ago and I was just reading what's on the agenda.

## Blog post outline

https://github.com/stacksgov/pm/issues/26

Lane: Jason opened a Project Board to organize some of the outstanding tasks which Jenny had opened, and a lot of that was kind of looking for feedback on different questions that could feed into the post. Yeah, Jenny, or Jason, or I guess anyone else. Do you guys want to share any thoughts or updates on this blog post.

Jason: Sure, I'll just jump in real quick on the structural side. So as far as we were looking at things on GitHub, we had just some general issues that were calling for some written content. And in the last call, we talked about possibly making this like an ongoing thing. If we were to do a once a month type blog post or just find ways to get this into a broader overview that that people can look at. So that's the idea behind the Project Board and I'll try and get a link up to that as well. But basically, you know, it's just a quick way to say, hey, this is a topic I think would be great to share with everyone in a way to kind of gather that content across the group.

Jason: And then, Jenny, did you have anything else to add, did you get a chance to look at that yet?

Jenny: No, nothing else to add, really, other than encouraging folks to just drop it notes where they can, and like I've mentioned before, they don't need to be completely perfectly written pieces. Whatever we can put together would probably make for a pretty good piece, this group is is already done so much so if you can just get some thoughts in this week and I can start putting together a skeleton of an update for this blog.

Kieran: What's the blog about specifically, or is it a general sort of overview with the whole blockstack ecosystem.

Jason: It is a general overview of what we've done as the stacks governance working group. Just a way to kind of get some of those updates out there. And one thing I started looking at this morning that was really interesting too, I wanted to share with everyone, looking back at the original blog posts that Brittany put and all the comments there and definitely making sure you read through the interviews that Lane did, because both have some information that I've noticed every time I look back at it after two weeks to a month. I start to get new insights and it kind of gives us an idea if we're headed the direction we originally thought. So, two more little things to look at. If it's a good resource to write about and what we've done already.

Lane: Thanks, Jason. That's a good point. Yeah, I think these things are all part of our knowledge base, so to speak, and I think it's testament to the breadth and depth of, you know, contributions, we've had. I know this is a young initiative, but there's quite a lot of great information out there and review some of the materials that have been shared just as one example, the materials that Harold shared a couple of calls ago on the two row wampum stuff, it's like I just learned more every time I feel like my IQ points are just increasing. So yeah, take a look at those things if you haven't.

Lane: And definite call to action here is please drop your thoughts on what should go into the blog post, I just dropped a link into the chat here for the board of the Jason put together that organizes all the open issues that are waiting for feedback and will include these links in the video description as well for people who are watching this on YouTube.

https://github.com/stacksgov/pm/projects/2

Lane: OK, the next topic is the translation topic. So let's dive into that for a few minutes because it's an important one.

## Translations (#32)

Lane: So this came up one or two calls ago I think maybe two calls ago I remember Philip brought up this question and kind of said hey guys, you know, we have this great survey out there. We're getting good feedback on it. But the survey right now has not been translated into any other languages and, you know, are we not missing people and responses and contributions from other communities. Just to briefly share what I've seen in other communities, in the ethereum community even just adding a couple of languages like Spanish and Chinese are two of the most obvious ones.

Lane: I've seen enormous returns in terms of engagement from the community, Philip I think the work that you and folks like you are doing, you know, actually hosting Meetups in different locations in different languages is really important heroic work.

Lane: If I might, I was hoping to kick off by actually asking Jenny and Brittany. What, if anything, PBC thinks about this because obviously PBC has existed for a long time and you guys have run meetups around the world have you guys made an effort to do things like translating blog posts or technical documentation, yet, and if not, is that something that might be helpful.

Brittany: We do do some translations. In Asia, we do have a partner who helps us on translations of blog posts and like important announcements into Chinese and Korean communities and we have had some volunteers. Like translate content as it comes out especially things like white papers and other languages like French and Spanish. So yeah, there has been a movement of volunteer translation or having things regularly translated through partners. So yeah, I think we would love for it to be as accessible as possible. I know that a lot of browsers do offer translation on like web pages, but anything like this like a survey or GitHub. I don't know how easy it is to translate, but I'll let Jenny also comment. I know we have a lot of discord groups and community members who work in different languages, too.

Jenny: Yeah. So in addition to that, I think it's something that we want to lean into a little more, just the fact that we have so many members from different parts of the world who who can help with translation. So one of the things that we're going to try with the testnet actually there's going to be a bounty attached to it, is helping us translate some of the existing documentation for things like mining and stacking. and as they sort of added to the stack for for the testnet that will be a challenge or a bounty that community members can help with, and the four languages that are priority are Chinese, Korean Spanish and there's another that I'm blanking on.

Jenny: There are so many community members who offer to do this already that we're putting it out sort of as a call to action, and with a bounty attached to it. There is a risk of getting you know like simple Google Translate submissions but I think that we have enough number or enough friends who can help us check the quality and accuracy of translations before we actually move forward with one, so that'll be sort of our first test to crowdsourcing translations from community members and we'll see how that goes. And those bounties will be released later this week and I'm looking forward to just to seeing the participation in that.

Lane: Yeah, thank you for sharing. Just to be clear, you're talking now specifically about was a technical documentation for the testnet.

Jenny: Yeah, technical documentation. I think this is probably some of the most challenging stuff just because there are new terms and things in that documentation that, you know, I'm curious how it would translate over into different languages.

Lane: Yeah, that's actually what I was exactly about to say was that if you're able to get those things translated, then we should definitely be able to get simpler things like surveys translated

Lane: I shared this I think on GitHub. I just want to share it here as well. I think a great example of this is the YouTube videos that Andreas Antonopoulos puts out, For folks who may not be familiar, Andreas Antonopoulos was a very well known figure in the crypto and block chain and especially Bitcoin space, and he's got literally hundreds if not thousands of videos on YouTube and he has a very active community around the world who completely on a volunteer basis translate his videos into probably dozens of languages.

Lane: There's some of the most watched videos and a great starting point for many people. It helps that YouTube makes this quite simple. You can actually have, So when I say translation in the case of YouTube. I mean, they're their subtitles, obviously. So it's possible with it with an active community. So yeah, let me let me shut up and open the floor and maybe other people have thoughts on this.

Kieran: I did the survey and that's why I'm here. That's what got me here. I can't quite remember the actual content of it, is it totally specific to the sort of blockstack you know knowledge community, or, I can't quite remember, is it more wide ranging so that anyone could take it?

Lane: I think anyone who is active in any blockchain community.

Kieran: So I could, I was thinking, you know, I'm sort of involved in Tech Academy and sort of them in there for him there and I'm in a couple of other telegram groups and You know, and I was thinking about this is specifically about to ask about this is it, you know, would it be. It could be a good idea to just share it with a couple of those people. And if they liked it, like maybe give it to their audiences, or whatever.

Lane: Yeah, absolutely. I think, I think, by all means, we should encourage sharing of the survey with with just that one caveat that if you've never seen or touched a blockchain before you [would have trouble with] some of the terminology.

Lane: Yeah, um, I want to highlight an idea that Philip made a few minutes ago. I think it's a great idea. And it's that like, okay, in the ideal case we translate the survey into a dozen languages. That would be wonderful. But even without doing that maybe we leave the survey in English, and we just say, hey, you can respond in whatever language you want to, [if] people think that that's a good idea.

Kieran: It depends what the ratio of understanding and if you can, just like with Dutch with me. I can understand what pretty much 90% of Dutch but can't speak. I can speak like ten percent, and then that's how that ratio is Spanish speakers.

Jason: Yeah, and I just wanted to come on and agree. I think in the very basic sense the easiest thing we can do as an action item today is to just put up that notice. Hey reply in your language because if we got a response, and we threw it into Google Translate and it didn't look right we would have a community members, somebody who would totally help us with that. And we can even look at doing that. Like maybe hey run a few of those by Phillip for the Spanish stuff or somebody else. That way, as long as it's not a heavy workload, I think it would be great to do. Overall, at least for a short term answer.

Lane: Yeah, that the reason I like the idea is, in my experience, there's definitely a large number of people in the world who feel quite comfortable reading English but less comfortable trying to communicate outward in English. Yeah, and this has been my experience with the languages that I've studied.

Lane: I mean, again, ideally, right, we should have these things to have some set of languages, like, you know, the UN has its official set of five languages like we should have our whatever they are our five languages and every make an effort to translate everything but you know we don't have necessarily those resources right

Kieran: Small bounties on that type of dissemination of documents. Once you got to a certain stage, but at this stage is not, you know, it's the cart before the horse.

Phillip: But essentially, then probably the base, the base document has to be translated different language in order to facilitate the access is our goal. So probably those other than the base because with that you can prepare some presentations on that. But we have what we have done also is the some PowerPoint presentations or slides that those are had to be translated and also facilitated so that also mean, for example, Portuguese is not anywhere. So, and then I have not seen people that speak Portuguese in the big population and then this is still a lot of work, and I'd been I went around the Latin America yesterday to know to promote the presentation today and it's still new for all the Spanish speaking country.

Phillip: Imagine Africa and Asia and all that and I have many languages, but the basic ones, you know, will be essential. But then if we put the survey you know say indication clearly all language welcome a kind of, so then, then the because some people you know that I don't want to be the end of the empire. They know the vampires as winning or whatever they say in some countries they have this time. So then it's something they see English. And so the Empire, it's, it's been taking over the world and all that. So if you put anything so that that's that's the thing is that sometimes we have to Encourage people but in terms of our governance, governance is just to to invite people to answer in any language. And then we then we care about you know what advancing. Yes, yes. So So we are kind of advancing our governance, but at least you know we have a participation, because that's our main goal participation as much as possible.

Lane: Just one one thought that is based on what Philip was saying, Philip you clearly, you guys have done a lot of work on translating materials. Right. You mentioned PowerPoints, so proposing that maybe one of the things that we do in this working group, that the foundation can do is to put these out, try to get basic materials like white papers and presentations and things translated and then have a knowledge base of those that other people in, for example, the Latin America community could rely on.

Kieran: It really ties into the whole governance method issue as well, you know, obviously, because the Constitution of whatever the foundation is whatever gets developed is multinational multilingual so it goes right at the core of kind of a conundrum.

Lane: Well, there are two things that are universal, our music and computer code. So maybe it should be written in computer code. (joking)

Lane: I'm half joking, but that is actually kind of what Bitcoin and Ethereum communities feel there are smart contracts because you don't need to have contracts written in natural language.

Kieran: Well, that's what a lot of the videos I've been watching, or the ones that I find most interesting are drawing a direct correlation between that we don't have to reinvent the wheel in terms of governance, there are all of these, you know, millennia of thinkers about governance and it's the same issue, let's not pretend it isn't. I noticed that, not this is totally unresolved in the crypto space. Now look at the card on a Video from 2019, you know, and then my dad closer to launch where they don't know it didn't seem to have any kind of sorted out all, You know, Seeing good really interesting questions but no real destiny. Yes, that's where we are. It feels. We have a whole load of these are the conundrums. What are we going to do about them.

Lane: So Jason, you had asked specifically, are there any actionable items we can work on now, or is this just something to keep in mind as we move forward. Maybe a forum post to be more appropriate. Maybe that's a good place to the last piece of this question this topic to kind of bring up so I proposed one idea. Another possible action item is that jokes aside, like our founding documents, our Constitution, whatever we have maybe our code of conduct. Maybe those things should be translated, at the very least right into some minimum set of languages. Yeah. Anyone else. Anyone else have thoughts on other action items or is this just a, you know, agenda item that we come back to in the future. What do people think?

Jason: Sure. So looking at what we talked about already. I am going to have to catch up some of these notes, but it's great. I love seeing things kind of fly off as we talk, but really the the quickest and and most direct action item is to get that survey updated to let people know all are welcome. We'll start with that. And from there, the idea of what languages we want to choose and kind of how we want to do that with the starting documents, I can see that going to issues in one way. The Forum is nice because we might get a little bit broader reach as well. So I'd say, let's start with the issues and then we can always point the forum back to the issues, keep it all and get hub where we can, right?

Kieran: So, which is the best link to the questionnaire to share publicly, is it on forum or is there a more...

Lane: Yeah, it's been posted a few places. I'll find it and drop it in here.

Lane: Cool. Okay, we've got a couple more items on the agenda. So if everyone's okay with that. I'm going to just bring up the next one, while I find this link.

https://stacksgov.typeform.com/to/GJzIeI

Lane: The next one is the code of conduct question.

## Code of Conduct

Lane: So this is something so just to paint the picture here, we've had this as an open topic for a few weeks. Now I don't know if we've discussed it on previous calls. There's also an open issue in our GitHub about a code of conduct which I think is one of our I'm calling it a foundational document. I think for the Stacks Foundation for governance for the working group for all these things right. It's one of the most basic things we need.

Our issue about CoC: https://github.com/stacksgov/proposals/issues/11

Lane: and then and then something happened a few days ago, which was that a totally separately to this conversation a code of conduct file was added to the main blockstack stacks blockchain repository on GitHub. Maybe other folks who followed this conversation more closely could fill in more details. But my understanding was that it was actually just a copy and paste from a very simple code of conduct that the PBC staff had been working on over some overtime rolling out to all of the open repositories as, you know, the idea here being that having something in place. It's better than having nothing which is probably true.

Recently implemented CoC: https://github.com/blockstack/stacks-blockchain/pull/1436

Lane: On the other hand, there was a little bit of pushback from inside the governance working group, saying, hey, if this is a community code of conduct that process should have involved the community. And the comments I saw kind of agreed with that and said, this could have been done in a different way. It should have been done in a different way. And it's obviously still on the table for conversation so I just added to the agenda because it was one of the things that came up this past week, and people seem to care a lot about it. So I'll just open the floor and see if anyone wants to share thoughts on what happened or what could happen.

Juliet: Yeah, I think that it was posted on one of the repos. And there was an issue that came up and everyone on the PBC, internally on PBC, the members of the development team, agreed that it was a good code of conduct and there's nothing wrong with the code of conduct, in and of itself. The idea. And I think the thing that was raised by both Terje and Dan, and then I followed up a little bit on it was that when these, particularly if you look internally at the code of conduct, it's across the board, not just in the repo, but it's across the board in every area it applies to every social element that Blockstack has and as well as if you're an evangelist that applies to everything that you do in public.

Juliet: And so I think that both Dan's and Terje's concerns was that there should be some, you know, at least some community involvement when there's a code of conduct change or when there's a new code of conduct proposed since everyone is impacted in it. all of these things belong to the community.

Jason: Yeah, and I agree. I saw a little bit of it come up in the in the chat. I haven't been able to fully dive into it but it was an interesting thing to read, you know, where it's not a big deal that it's a code of conduct. I mean, that is, you know, we want good things and we don't want bad things. It's pretty straightforward. And yet, it just felt like the discussion was only internal so you know we did feel a little left out in that way and it mentions community managers and people who, I mean, if we're someone stepping up to do these initiatives it would have been nice to get some input on that. But it also sounded like they kind of said that there's going to be an open issue. And there's going to be open spots where we can still get feedback now is as kind of a way to fix that up if we see things that need to be resolved.

Phillip: Yes, so that is mainly participation. So the probability we should put that also does, do we have something like that in the survey? And I don't remember, but those are the principles that we have to put in place for for our community to do to be healthy and prosper.

Kieran: very paradoxical situation, isn't it, it's a sort of a backstop boilerplate thing, but also in a governance issue so goes around around a little bit. But yeah, I can see the the procedural objections are totally valid, but it seems also not seen as the thing at the same time.

Lane: Yeah, I agree with that characterization, Kieran. Thanks for sharing that based on the basis of the things I read know i think a lot of the folks, or maybe all the folks who are directly involved in what happened, are not part of this call right now so we're kind of the peanut gallery commenting on what is an important topic.

Lane: Philip, to answer your question, a moment ago. No, I don't think the survey speaks directly to code of conduct at all. So we could discuss it if that's something we want to change.

Lane: If I may try to steer the conversation in a constructive direction. I guess the question I would like to ask everyone here is what can or should we do going forward differently or how do we kind of prevent this sort of thing from happening again.

Phillip: It will happen, so we have to have a way to resolve them. Cope with the problem and I don't see it as a problem but but then requirement of the suggestion. So then this is something that the way the governance has to come away to do to deal with this issues that will cause can. So that's why I support also to have some principles that will will help another tool for governance, because not all we have the capacity to define.

Jason: And and I want to note that I do not mean to to say anything was was done wrong or anything else. I think we're early on in this initiative, right, we're asking how is this foundation going to be formed. What's it going to control what kind of things can we do, and we have a process around a possible SIP idea. So I think in the future. It would be nice if these went through like a formal process, even if nobody commented and it got implemented. There would have been no issues.

Kieran: I like that. An idea on that you could just have a pending gov thread. You know, some some space where pending gov decisions are, but you know that.

Lane: The tool. Yeah. So, something we do have. We have a proposals repository and GitHub issues, then there the SIP process.

Kieran: What is this?

Lane: Okay, that's why I'm not sort of notes because I'm not. I'm still getting up to speed with being okay with that on the discord thing you could have a more public...

Kieran: Pending submission. What's the community saying, this will be committed, comments or now by X time.

Lane: So, okay, we have, I want to, I want to continue moving through the call, because we're getting close to running out of time. And we still need to save some time for an update from Brittany.

Lane: So, if I may try to summarize kind of what I'm hearing the sentiment here. I think everyone on this call is we have rough consensus that we like the content of the code of conduct. There's nothing wrong with it necessarily and we like the idea that it exists. We just think that the process could and probably should be a little bit different.

Lane: And I think, you know, we're suggesting that obviously this is all quite new and we're still figuring out how all the pieces fit together. The foundation and PBC in this working group and what SIP is and everything else. But that we want some form of due process right we want some maybe that's not the right term for it, but we want there to be sort of a, you know, opportunity for people to know what is being proposed that the comment on those things and I think that's, I think that's reasonable. So we will make sure we save time to talk about this topic on future calls, because I think it's an important topic.

Jason: Yeah, I know you're moving along. I just wanted to throw in one more little thought there and really it's trying to look at it from, just the perspective, right, like we're at testnet launch this week we're at mainnet launch soon after. I could see by pushing it, it was rushed through. So I think it's more important that this was brought up as a point, then it was a thing that happened. So yeah, I think it's a great thing. We could grow from here.

Lane: Yeah, it's a great test case, I think for a lot of the things that we're trying to accomplish and governance. Suggest that we work on a due process approach Julia, just type this into the comment box. I agree with that. Cool. Um, yeah, this is, this is great. I'm happy to discuss this. Will definitely I'll make sure this is on the agenda for for future calls. I think there's a lot more to discuss here.

Lane; I apologize, I made a super last minute addition to the agenda, I forgot to add this before and that is the SIP process proposal.

## SIPs process proposal

Lane: So this is the thing. The main deliverable that I've been working on for the past couple weeks and I mentioned it on the last call. And I said that I was waiting for some preliminary feedback, from the PBC side before sharing it with everyone. So that happened over the past week. And so we're ready to share this with everybody. And so I will do that later today.

Lane: It's based on again, this was talked about in the last call, but it's largely informed by things that happened in Bitcoin and Ethereum and Zcash and other communities. And so, yeah, it's also something I think that we, it's a very concrete straightforward thing that the foundation can do as one of its first kind of things that that owns and delivers on so we definitely need everyone's feedback on that.

Lane: Cool, yeah. Alright, so I want to make sure we save some time for an update from Brittany if she has anything to share on foundation and PBC stuff.

Brittany: Yes. Yeah. So I dI know that we still have a few minutes here and I was, I think it's great that, you know, we're thinking through these processes out loud and using them this time to do that. Sounds like You know, having worked out for like a working group call on some of these issues would be great to to just give more time and space.

## Stacks Foundation update (from PBC)

Brittany: But yeah, happy to give a quick update on the foundation. So for those of you who haven't been on previous calls, the foundation is the mission of that is to be able to support the ongoing educational aspects of blockstack technology, as well as being able to do grants, potentially, to revive app mining, maybe in a new form. So being able to support the ecosystem outside of the PBC organization. So the public Benefit Corp. That is blockstack said this separate entity would be spun out and just be thinking about growing the open source community through these different efforts.

Brittany: So we've been exploring You know, legally, what is, what kind of entity is that going to be, how does it need to be set up and we've settled on a US based non profit corporation. And so that's at the state level and pursuing still what kind of potential tax exempt status may be the best fit so that way if we did decide that we wanted to have memberships or if we wanted to take donations down the road and those could be done in a tax advantaged way for the donors, but in the short term, we will be a separate corporate entity that can always apply for nonprofit.

Brittany: So that's pretty similar. At first I didn't realize that, you know, if a nonprofit is a 501(c)(3) they have a separate entity underneath it. It might be a corporation, it might be an LLC, but that nonprofits designation is something that you apply for either at time of incorporation or soon thereafter. So for us, we're applying for the corporate entity first and then the right fit nonprofit status, later, which is great.

Brittany: With that we've been, one of the road bumps that we had this week was that we planned to name the foundation stacks foundation and but there are some similar entities like Stacks, Inc. in the state of Delaware. So being able to incorporate as stacks foundation is actually not available. So instead, we have to incorporate as a different alternative name that is kind of close to that. So we've been exploring other options which you know we've got used to describe blockstack in the community before, like, you know, an open Internet, a user Internet a user owned Internet. Internet Ownership Foundation, lots of different things like that. There are a lot of organizations that exist already have some of these similar names. So just trying to navigate what the best representation of a name is that isn't somehow blocked based on usage or already been incorporated, but the benefit is that we can always DBA or do business as Stacks Foundation, even if the underlying entity's name is like a little bit different of that.

Brittany: So, if you're in discord and you have other ideas on on that route foundation name we are you know, I plan to incorporate that within the next day or two, so that we can begin operating that entity fully independently from blockstack PBC, which means that it has its own like autonomy and terms of making decisions and supporting the the ecosystem that community without the extra layer being attached to PBC. That's the update of where we are.

Brittany: With that, and I guess I as Lane mentioned one of the sort of first initiatives that I think will be really important for the foundation is to think about this stacks improvement proposal process like this process and the work that Lane has done there. And that's where I see this group being very helpful and being able to just weigh in and kind of look at what's in there because I think that we want that to be an independent process so that the code of the open source code of blockstack itself is truly open source and not owned by a single entity. So the upgrades as well. And not by a single entity.

Lane: That's really exciting. So am I hearing correctly. So this time next week, there will be another entity in the Blockstack universe / the stacks ecosystem?

Brittany: Yeah, fingers crossed. So with obviously with the current environment with COVID in the United States that has slowed down some of these Government agencies that do the you know that grant you EINs and then confirm your corporation. So, we will have at least filed our Corporation, but hopefully by next Wednesday, I'll be able to report that the new entity exists.

Lane: Thanks for the update. That's exciting. Does anyone have any other questions for Brittany? I do see Juliet asked in the text here. Are there some specific names that have been proposed already?

Brittany: Um, yeah. So, stacks foundation was the first one, internet ownership foundation, internet 3 foundation, Open stacks Foundation, open internet foundation. So all of those have been challenged or rejected based on existing entities that are too similar or could easily be confused, so that it could be an IP issue. We can take that to discord, too, I don't know if we will be able to brainstorm on the fly in three minutes, but uh yeah just something to think about.

Lane: Cool. Yeah, definitely. If you're watching this, or listening to this and you have ideas please share them on the discord working group channel Jason I saw you unmute, were you gonna say?

Jason: Basically the same thing. You know, I would love to see this taken to me. I think we give some neat ideas out of a discord conversation. And it's a neat way to pull some involvement, just to do some crowdsourcing. So, I love it. And as Juliet had said in the chat. You know, it's really exciting to see that we're on the edge of the birth of this foundation. We're almost there to the first steps which is a really key point.

Phillip: How about digital rights foundation?

Lane Rettig: Digital Rights Foundation. That's not bad. That's really not bad.

Lane: I have another call in two minutes sharp. So I'm going to go ahead and hand the hosting stuff here to Jason in case people want to stay around longer and keep talking about other stuff and I'm going to preemptively say thank you guys for a great call this week and I look forward to seeing everyone next week, but please feel free to keep chatting.

Jason: Alright, so are there any other comments that we want to jump into based on Brittany's update there with the stacks foundation.

Matt: I might be a little bit behind here, but I wanted to kind of get up to speed, like how are we looking at this, like the governance of the foundation or maybe that's like kind of what we're trying to figure out, but whether this is going to be like stakeholder governance, like where you're proving that you have a certain amount of stacks therefore you're able to have influenced that way or something where we're looking at like a federation of leaders ever going to take kind of soft impact like will take soft insights from people and then have like some kind of representatives that are sending on the foundation. Did we kind of have an idea which way that's going to go?

Brittany: Yeah, so this is something that we've been discussing. I think the goal is to set up the MVP foundation so that it can it can operate independently. So that means like some of these decisions of how the community ways in and who is representing and what is voting look like and what issues are, you know, will be voted on all of those questions can exist once there's an entity that exists. And as part of that is just because of the legality of, you know, PBC making all these decisions on behalf of a separate entity feels like a little strange versus being the entity being able to actually truly be represented independently and so with the, you know, actions of like what it means, I think, talk to many providers in the in other projects that I shared some notes with this group here and those are on Github as well.

Link to Brittany's notes: https://docs.google.com/document/d/125MQTwpP9oooAUSES4U_HTcVJ02lVOR7A1IWEC3jh3g/edit?usp=drivesdk

Brittany: I think if you look at, take a look at like the Zcash foundation. They've been very transparent on how their foundation works and they've created this system in which anyone in the community is able to vote on issues that are proposed, and then that vote is majority basically, helps flag issues and then the inplementation of those issues comes up as something that like anyone could weigh in. So it's not necessarily representative Government,ut it Means that everyone has a say and then how to implement if there are conflicts and how that is then there is a board that helps provide resolution on how to proceed. But for the most part it's mostly the community that is doing the work of, like, making sure issues are presented. I think that's really interesting.

Brittany: I think the Linux Foundation is another foundation. That is an interesting one to model after where there's governance of the Treasury, and high level, which has a large board that is elected and has a lot of members, and members can be people who are large paying members in the community or they could be elected, and then they have a separate committee that does technical upgrades and integrations. So those two things are very separate, so you can be elected on to the technical committee, but you have to be, you know, working and doing the technical work in the community, whereas the board itself, who's thinking about the money and the feature of the Linux Foundation that happens with a different group. So some of it is like, okay, what's formal structure like who is formally is making decisions versus how the community decisions are made. So I like the idea of having as much community input as possible and then having ways in which community members can be part of the board or necessary, but actually the board does not have that much power, in like making the issues are determining what's important or not.

Brittany: So something that is exploratory and that's exactly the type of work that I think the first 60 days of the foundation is is really important to think about like how that could be set up and circulate, the proposal of how to run that in the beginning, and then, you know, we can always add complexity. I think it's really hard to take complexity away. The simpler the better. So the, like I said, I like the caches approach of anyone in the community. They just have to register. They don't even have to use their real name, but they have to register and show you know what sort of like proof that they are involved with community somewhere. As they get a say in what's important. And as long as they aren't a bad actor like they're not a spammer simple or something. They're you know eligible for this council of the community

Matt: Thank you, Brittany, that makes a lot of sense. And do we think that we're going to build the tooling on top of blockstack like potentially something that you would log in with a blockstack ID. And then maybe have some kind of a call like an up down voting system or whatever it gets built afterwards to serve those purposes. Do we see that as something that we want to build native on blockstack?

Brittany: I think that's like a question for the community. I think it would be super interesting to see. To do that and like have actually a tool built on this software that everyone's usinh, so yeah, I think that would be cool. I think voting systems are are great at giving signal, but they're maybe not great at making fine like absolute answers because, you know, there's a lot of ways that they can be gamed if someone really wanted to win the votes in a certain way, but You could get a lot of signal by having a really good voting system. I believe so. I like that idea. And then if it proves that it works over the many important issues, then yeah, maybe becomes formalized but I think this is really cool.

Phillip: So that the service that we've been trying to promote. It's been to understand which way should be in all this governance. How do people think about you know this governance and so as you were saying. Matt, you know that your ways of seeing how distribute that can be also answered in the Governance Survey. So we want to have as much as many people, you know, to participate in that.

Kieran: I also found the materials on the forum underneath the survey, really need to kind of go through those and because many thoughts that I was having a lot of the other people have had them and I found that a good distillation as a sort of base point start off. And so I got through those and I'm having thoughts further from that now so I intend to compile some of that.

Brittany: Awesome, unfortunately I've got to jump on another call that a few minutes late for but yeah, please continue. And I look forward to continuing this next weekend and discord. Appreciate it.

Jason: All right, thank you. Brittany. And just for everybody else to some of what we're talking about here is definitely found the GitHub. So we've been thinking through how, more of the meta conversation to a lot of this, like how do we share resources like right now. We obviously have a YouTube channel, we have this zoom pro account that we're sharing between Lane and PBC. And we were looking at possibly other technology to, like, what if we wanted to use block survey as a group to do our surveys or what if we wanted to have xordrive to store some files and I post all that in an issue because I think it brought up kind of a different thing, which would be best way to share a blockstack ID as a as a company or an entity. So that was kind of a fun offshoot from there, but I would definitely say any of those type of thoughts, quick discussion with available and discord, GitHub is more for action items, but it's perfect for talking about that, like how what would we envision how would we envision it being, would it tie into topics like quadratic voting that we've talked about i mean it's it's really being formed at this stage. So that kind of input is is really cool.

https://github.com/stacksgov/pm/issues/33

Kieran: Incredibly exciting.

Jason: At this point, I know we have Lane and Brittany both had to jump, but we were just finishing up talking about kind of that formal Update from PBC on the Stacks Foundation. The fact that's about to get started in the next week here and some of the early stages. Anything else that anybody would like to talk about on that subject.

Jason: Alright, well, for those of you left on the call. We'll just go over this week was April 22nd, so next week's call will be on April 29th at the same time 7am pacific and 10am Eastern and at this point. We'd like to open up the floor. So if there's anything else that anybody would like to discuss with you we have here, or any other ideas please feel free to share at this time. Otherwise, if we get some silence. Then we'll probably end up finishing up for the day.

Matt: So I want to add in some notes to the resources page. Is that cool to just jump in there and add in a section or something like that. Obviously you know following the flow.

Jason: Yeah, yeah. And that's awesome, we want as many people involved as possible. So definitely feel free to just shoot over a PR with your changes and and more than likely they're going to get approved. One of things I want to add, and I'll be updating the calls, too. So I'll keep an eye out for that.

Matt: Awesome.

Jason: Alright, well it sounds like we don't have too much else going on here. Got a lot of good links in the chat today. So I'll try and translate those over to our notes and everything else, but thank you everybody for being on the call today. Really appreciate it. I think we got some really fun topics and I hope you guys have a great week. I look forward to seeing you next week.

Thank you everyone!
