# 20200415 Governance Working Group Call 8

Juliet (@jmoberding) is modering the meeting today.

## Standups! What are you working on?

### Lane

Lane: short update this week, working on a proposal for the SIP (Stacks Improvement Process), one of the very first concrete things the foundation can do is take stewardship of the SIP process, or play a role in it, a great idea and we can learn from other organizations like ZCash on this concept. spen some time and it was a fun and interesting project, know the Ethereum Improvement Proposal (EIP) process and had a chance to go back and read through the history of the Bitcoin Improval Process (BIP) process, through the ZIP process from ZCash, all the way back to the Python Enhancement Proposal (PEP) process. There's an interesting lineage here:

- BIPs descend from PEPs and EIPs
- ZIPs descend from BIPs

Did a bunch of research, reading on that, took a ton of notes, drew up a proposal for what we might want to do with Stacks Improvement Proposals (SIPs) basedon those things. Pretty close to sharing with everyone based on some feedback, no other blockers. Will continue to work on that and overall governance stuff in the coming days.

Juliet: That sounds very exciting, looking forward to looking at it once its available and intersted in how it will work, and can't wait to see what you've been working on.

Brittany: We can get that shared out very very soon. It's on my backlog there. Thanks Lane for that.

Lane: I think that's it for me, it was a fun project, final result was interesting but don't want to take up more standup time. Genuinely an interesting thing, thank you for listening.

### Phillip

Been doing two subjects essentially, reading about general world governance, other issues being talked about with the situation of the situation of the pandemia, how the governments and countries are trying to cope with that, and the international agents how they are doing that. The president of US not funding the World Health Organization, so many things with this constant problem of governance. Doing a lot of reading and understanding of what is going on. Trying to make the colleagues and friends in the area to fill out the survey, hoping the number of respondents have increased.

Juliet: thank you Phillip

Lane: I didn't check recently, but I will check right now how many responses we have in the survey, I will post it as a text message here.

Jenny: mentioned last week, included two notes in the quarterly newsletter meant to go out this week, early next week, mitchell and some of the other folks getting some final review, once that goes out there should be a pretty big increase in the number of responses, goes out to a pretty big list. something else I've been working on, posted some issues to github asking for responses to use for the governance working group blog update that we talked about last week. if you have some time, check out the issues, see what you can contribute to the blog.

Juliet: thank you Jenny, following up on that, I am working on a general update of where we have been, where we started at, and where we are now. Looking and focusing on the questions that have been raised by the community, then dovetailing that into the things that you posted yesterday on github. I'll contribute a little and then hope to see everyone else's contributions.

Jenny: awesome, thanks Juliet, looking forward to seeing those. if you have ideas you want to contribute, feel free to drop it into the comments, anything is helpful and they don't have to be idle drafts or anything like that

Juliet: will do, that makes it easier for me! anyone else have something to add to the standup this morning?

### Jason

I can jump on real quick, for me still working down the same list, I didn't get to as much as I hoped to last week so I'm putting that on my plate again. The github updates, and Jenny I saw those extra issues, excited to look through those, and will get in there where I can and I know I owe Lane some review and updates too. That's gonna be my goal for this week, and no blockers on my end.

Juliet: Thank you! wonderful, if we don't have any more stand-ups, let's move into the main portion of the agenda, first thing we have on the agenda is the community survey. Lane are you going to be talking about this?

### Community survey

Lane: I don't have anything to add since last week, posted in the chat, for the benefit of people watching the recording, I did check we are at 44 total responses. That's +36 since we released it, I think that represents, in percentage terms, a pretty big uptick since last week, and as Jenny said  a moment ago it will go out to a wider audience via a newsletter in the next few days, which is exciting. If I say more I will be repeating the same thing I always say - we should be thinking about next steps and what to do with the data. Still an open question to everyone.
Juliet: any questions or contributions by anyone else about the community survey?

Phillip: I have realized that the people here and around South America, have a challenge to write in English, most of the questions are open response / open answer, so they have to write in English. One of the issue that he sees is people take several days to answer. Struggle with English.

Juliet: any thoughts around that Phillip, how we can resolve that? can see how that would be a real blocker for someone who, know it would take more time and I wouldn't get back to it.

Phillip: we should let them write in the langauge they want, that is what we do, for example we have something written in English even though the questionnaire is in Spanish, we just put it in English. The problem is a person that reeads, it's not so difficult reading then writing, so many ways of translating the text is probably one piece of difficulty. Maybe have other options, because the most important thing is to have the idea, but feelings can come across different. would be most important, so if they write in Russian, be good to have something in Russian.

Juliet: I think having people feel that they can write responses in their own language is very open / welcoming, and makes them feel that they are able to contribute to the working group and the governance issues.

Juliet: I noticed that on the forum, don't know if this is a new person, someone responded that they answered questions on the survey and contributed some interesting thoughts and ideas that they had, a good indicator that people are taking the survey seriously, looking at it, thinking about it, and wanting to contribute. Also saw on Discord there was another person, again I don't know if they are new, but they were interested in resources and finding out more about governance and what the governance working group does. Thought it was another exciting trend, even if it's just two people posting, it means there is more interest out there. These are all good things the survey can stir up amongst the community.

Juliet: any other thoughts about the survey?

Jenny: I do think that Phillip's point about translations is a pretty big issue, thinking about it recently, wondering if there is an easy way to get help on that from community members. Something I've been thinking about for testnet documentation. It's a community challenge folks can help with. I wonder if it is as easy as putting out a github issue and sharing that around to our community members, saying if anyone knows a language other than English and has time to translate parts of this, that would be super helpful. Curious if putting that call to action out there could get us moving on the translations, that is a pretty big deal since we have so many community members around the world.

Juliet: I think that's a really good point, will come up repeatedly, whether it's for the survey, testnet, other things in our group, really think it's something we should make some moves on so that we can make sure everybody can contribute in the language of their choice. I think that's really important.

Jason: I definitely want to jump in and agree on that too, I made a note and plan to create an issue around the idea, it's something we should definitely talk about. It's an interesting point - just had it come up with Blockstack Connect coming from the COVID-19 team doing that CoronaTracker app, and they just translated their app into a whole bunch of languages, used a shared spreadsheet, kept it simple, would like to take a look at their process and maybe lean on some of those same people for help. I think it's perfect timing we are looking into that, and want to say I support that idea too.

Juliet: I think that's really great Jason, to see how they have addressed it, I did see some plans on that that they were translating it into a number of different languages. So that's a great idea, thank you.

Juliet: If we do not have any more contributions or discussion or ideas about the community survey or about the language translation issue, I'll move onto the blog post outline. So, this is the blog post for the community survey, am I correct? that's what I'm understanding as I look at the agenda.

### Blog post outline

Jason: Yes, I understand it the same, there's an issue on Github that we are looking at creating a little project board for it so we can work through it pretty quickly, Jenny is there anything else you want to update us on?

Jenny: yeah, was confused for a second about what was being asked, it can definitely cover the survey but it is an opportunity to give updates on anything the gruop has been working on in general. Realize this blog could come out at anytime and there might be more to share, could come out earlier as a debut for the governance working group, nothing stopping us from writing more than one, or posting an update. Now is as good of a time as ever. It can definitely cover the survey, the original idea was to put a blog out there to get more responses, but it is a good opportunity to share our thoughts about the Blockstack ecosystem, where we want to go, and as Juliet mentioned, newer people sharing their thoughts and this blog will get more people engaged and participating in these discussions regularly.

Juliet: I think that's a great idea, I've been really inspired between the work of the business model group and work on the forum, good to pool things whether it's on github, discord, or have another way like the forum or blog post so there are more people who can access what we are doing here, and see what we are working on, and the big "ah-has" over the last month or so. I think that that's really important. I see Jason said something about a 10 part series.

Lane: It's funny, I actually have a 10 part series of articles on building good blockchains, and part of that is governance stuff, I'm not sure if that's what he is referring to when he said that, but it actually started out as a single article and I realized I had much more to say than I thought I did. Two quick thoughts to add - don't know exactly what this will contain until we all weigh in, it's a decentralized process, and it'll be fun to see thoughts people have on it to make it into the final article. One thing suggested to Jenny and will suggest in github - the importance of governance in general, can zoom in on the initiative and what we are doing and the stacks ecosystem, but if it were up to me include a section on why governance matters now more than ever and, to Phillip's point earlier, this is not just about blockchain ecosystems but about issues we are facing as a species and as a society in the world at large, and maybe including examples of things that have happened recently in blockchain governance, there's been quite a few of these, the sort of steem/steemit Justin Sun thing that played out for anyone who followed that, has been really interesting to watch, some positive and negative examples out there to reinforce why governance is important and interesting.

Juliet: think it's really important to take it from current world events, to blockchain world events, to be able to give a bigger vision of what we are talking about with that. Thank you Lane. Any other thoughts about the blog post? Any ideas, burning questions?

Brittany: is there a time frame that we would want to put something out there? on a regular basis or not, in the research from the past, what I shared in the past, there is a lot of content there that could be a blog post. So maybe it's more the mission of the blog post that would be the most helpful to serve our goals.

Juliet: I think there's a lot of information there, and everything on the github and what Lane has created, so many things that we shared on these calls and external docs made available. I think we have quite a bit. Jenny - do we have a deadline of when we need to get something together for this first blog post?

Jenny: no, haven't set a deadline yet, I mentioned it and think it's soemthing we can get working on and as long as we can get a draft together we can get it out soon, probably the sooner the better, didn't want to put a deadline on it with testnet coming up and wanted to check wtih the group on what's actually possible - but we can aim for the next two week or so? at least to get a draft together

Juliet: That makes sense to have some time, get a draft, pitch it to everyone, see what the thoughts are. Brittany, did you have some ideas about a regular monthly blog post?

Brittany: yes, I think as we kick off the foundation, plan to give the update after, having updates we can share with the community and things going on the community should be helpful. these calls are great to get perspective, in discord always a number of threaded conversations going on, maybe it's just helping to pull out things of interest, create a blog post to call out the things that are happening. maybe next one around the SIPs, lessons learned there, how we're thinking about it, put that into a public piece. the members of the call are smaller, people who watch the recordings, maybe a blog post is better for more input. Something to brainstorm about, the cadence to publish to the community, and rallying a group to maybe publish that.

Juliet: I completely agree, both Jason and Jenny mentioned they are creating a project on github for the first blog post, but we can start moving forward and providing input of making it ongoing. Like the idea of starting with the survey and the intro, moving into SIP process and talking about that, all very timely. I think that sounds great. Any other ideas or thoughts about this?

Phillip: very important, to be more expressive, more outgoing, lose your shyness, I'm still surprised when - yesterday we had a Blockstack Chile event, and might form it into Blockstack Latin America / South America, people from different places are coming and interacting, the surprise of the architecture or trying to solve the property of data and all that, in this side of the world just discovering the cost, imagine the same thing as the virus, every week it increases and they are raising awareness of the problem we are trying to solve with Blockstack technology. Whatever we do to be more expressive, and making sure the people will come, that weould be wonderful. we are getting organized, it's on the way!

Jason: I'd like to chime in too, that would be a fun place to put a consistent call of action, maybe a footer to the blog post, then we could point people back to notes after each meeting, where the video recordings are, we have the regular updates, highlight issues and projects. I think there's a lot of room to use that to reach out to more people.

Juliet: I definitely like the idea of the call to action, it really leads to engagement. I like the idea of being more expressive, Phillip "getting over shyness" and being a lot more expressive about what we're doing and including that call to action to other members of the community. I think we have some fascinating ideas for this, the blog post, don't know about you but I'm pretty excited about it!

Juliet: any other thoughts on the blog post?

Lane: I'm going to agree with everything everyone said, I think there's not a lot of good content out there in blockchain governance, struggled with the past couple of years, was finding sources he could rely on, it's gotten better - a couple reliable KBs or newsletters out there, might want to look at what others are doing and what we may want to emulate. putting our brand on it helps people both the brand and people to get awareness of stacksgov/stacks foundation as a brand, could help us recruit more people to particpate as well. great ideas!

Juliet: Thank you Lane, I think that's really important, to have a knowledge base, things we can all take a look at going forward, writing blog posts, contributing to blog posts, that's important, and as you mentioned about the brand, very exciting discussion today. Any other ideas about the blog post, any thoughts, any other subject matter adding to what we've talked about?

Juliet: let's move on - Brittany, are you ready to give a discussion about the stacks foundation updates?

### Stacks Foundation update (from PBC)

With the foundation we've been learning a lot about the different types of statuses for companies that exist, I think that we've been looking at US non-profit, the (c)(3) is the most common but means you are doing all charitable work, there is a (c)(4) which is similar and (c)(6) as a membership organization, and a (c)(7) that's a little bit different but I think we've ruled that out. Still narrowing down between a c3, c4, and c6. The thing is each has its own restrictions.

With a (c)(3), within a few years of operating you have to have a certain percentage of your proceeds coming from donations, which would require soliciting donations from a large group of people, curious to get people's thoughts here, the concern with that is if we need to constantly solicit donations year after year and has to be a certain number of peple to be eligible, that requires a lot of funding and effort to the fundraising side of the business, and less about delivering on the mission: supporting education, supporting open-source technology, giving grants to members of the community. with that being our lens, the c4 looks like a better fit because it is less about charitable donations.

If there are donations there is no tax benefit, unfortunately, but the business isn't required to raise funds through independent donations. With those things considered, we're trying to anticipate hurdles before delivery, and plan on incorporating a non-stockholder corporation. Then once we know what exemption to apply for, if we do decide on a c4 or c3, we could apply at a later point.  We won't yet fund this organization, but can start setting up its own website, it's own ownership of the digital community outside the PBC umbrella, a micro-separation in the short term.

So that's where were at today, pause there for questions, part of this is just sharing what I am learning as we are learning it, even with a lot of information it isn't clear to her which would be a good fit or not.

Lane: thanks for the update, love the idea of being lean and having a minimum viable foundation, means we can move faster and do the things we are describing. share a thought might be helpful for some folks, please correct me if wrong: having established a NPO a few years back, all the 501c3 etc designations are tax designations at the federal level. The important distinction is that this can be a Delaware C corporation, this thing can start out as an ordinary corporation with shareholders as a state level entity. there's also a state-level non-profit status, also a federal non-profit status, wanted to share that, helping him understand the process.

Brittany: that's exactly right, that distinction wasn't clear to me, my assumption was if you're a 501c3 you're a charity, people view you as doing things beneficial to the community, but if you're a corporation that's for profit entity competing in that aspect, so you're right it can be both a coproration and a 501c3, can also be a public benefit corporation and a nonprofit organization, or get that federal tax exemption status. Thought about that, but can always change that later as it requires more distinct definition in the charter. It has more reporting overhead, a number of other things, that's the path we took with PBC, so we are familiar with that type as well, what's good is that we can get the entity set up.

Another intersting aspect is with everything happening with the country-wide shutdown, a lot of the organizations that help establish entities or provide tax exemption status are working very slowly. most employees are working from home or not working, most businesses are moving very slowly and the tax status might take 3 months in the normal time, been advised it could take much longer (6mo/1yr), another reason to try and start the entity now and establish the separation so we're not waiting on an unknown timeline.

The mission of the org is still the same: some of the things I mentioned and all qualify under NPO mandate of education, funding grants, research, contributing to open source, and none of those activities are aimed to be for profit or commercializing anything.

Juliet: exciting! I am really excited to hear that the organization is going to get setup, think that makes so much sense to get the corporation setup first, then start putting together the website and materials so people can start to go to a place online and understand what the stacks foundation is. Think that all makes sense. I also echo the sentiment on how slow things are happening on the governant side, it is extremely slow, things that would get done in 2wks are dragging on for months. Extremly slow.

Brittany: after this, we get into the fun stuff, they have some URLs, stacks.org and a few others they picked up when they knew they were starting the foundation, got stacksfoundation.com, stacks.foundation, and others. likes the short one. What a logo would look like. For the logo, make a dirivitave fo the current logo to make it quick easy and recognizable to start, but can have a whole separate brand identity over the long term. Those are more fun things, not priority 1, but those things are happening. also grabbed some twitter handles, like stacksorg and stacks_org, hopefully will be able to post updates and communicate on behalf of the foundation instead of just through PBC.

Phillip: sounds good, thank you!

Juliet: any other questions, anyone have any contributions, thoughts, or ideas? I knew this was going to be an amazing day today.

Brittany: I love that attitude.

Juliet: That's the last part of our agenda today, any other updates? Anybody else have anything they want to talk about, contribute, new things that have come up. I think I'm really excited about the stacksgov organization getting set up, rolling out that first step, pretty exciting!

Brittany: One other fun thing about that, the ZCash foundation actually recommended some help from the person who helped them incorporate their entity and apply for their status, we are working with him as well, hopefully able to get the process started and it's great to work with operators who already have a lot of knowledge around a very new space. Most lawyers when you say we're doing crypto and open source but we don't want to charge for it, it can be a learning curve. Really greatful that the general crypto community is very generous in helping with referrals, and being helpful, I feel that it's a real benefit.

Phillip: Excellent.

Brittany: Juliet, thank you so much for hosting and running this meeting, very efficient.

Jason: Just a quick note - meeting next week will be Wednesday the 22nd for call #9.

Juliet: I think we can adjourn.

Jason: sounded like everyone was ready to go, that's why I jumped in. appreciate you all.
