# 20200617 Governance Working Group Call 17

Brittany Laughlin: Great. So today is June 17 and this is our governance working call group and we'll get things kicked off this morning just starting with our stand up for what people have been up to the past week and then we can go through the agenda item.
Brittany Laughlin: Does anyone want to start
Jason Schrader: Sure, it looks like I left my mic on, so I can start with mine. Real quick, and basically still working on the same things from from last week, you know, I took a bigger picture look at good
Brittany Laughlin: And I do feel like
Jason Schrader: I feel like we've got a great tool in front of us. We've got a ton of information. We've got a ton of tasks laid out, but it just needs better organization.
Jason Schrader: So that's really, it's what I've thought about over the last week I haven't achieved as much as I hope to coming off the last call. But I see that as really the bigger picture thing that we need to look at next.
Jason Schrader: So I am going to work on that over the next week and no blockers. At this time, I know fill up. I owe you a message. I haven't reached out to you yet and
Jason Schrader: We talked about working together on some of the notes and standards and procedures and that kind of thing as well. So I'm really going to
Jason Schrader: Lean on you for some input there as as somebody separate from me. So we have sort of a check and balance and otherwise. That's it for me, you know, other bloggers.
Lane Rettig: I can just jump into mine will be
Lane Rettig: Super quick. I don't have a ton to
Lane Rettig: Report, a lot has been know what the right word is a lot of great content has appeared the past week or two, which is really exciting. I was just
Lane Rettig: Reviewing I have these open browser tabs from the past few days. I still get caught up on. So I've been reading the text foundation si P one pager and the governance working group draft which I guess you probably put together, Brittany,
Lane Rettig: Some stuff in the forums and stuff in this card. Yeah. Just, just getting caught up on all the things. Thanks. No, no blockers.
Brittany Laughlin: Thank you.
Phillip Roe: I'm Sorry, sorry. Yeah.
Phillip Roe: Aspects that I've been reflecting is the you know that
Phillip Roe: About this flywheel model that we had a chance to see that day, and that gives you an overview of why important
Phillip Roe: Importance of the governance area. So then probably what is going to happen is that the people are going to wake up and as us, you know, I mean not wake up, but will be like measure, really, the importance of of this governance action so
Phillip Roe: You know, That's something that we have to do another effort in order to do invite people, you know, the friends you know the members of the community to join and put their thoughts in
Phillip Roe: You know, to, to interact whatever one participate. This is most important thing is, in order not to do them discovered that the all that process was in front of them and then they pass it on the on the side. I didn't
Phillip Roe: Didn't think much about it.
Phillip Roe: Well, that's my reflection of the week. But I mean, working on understanding better on that and all
Phillip Roe: Right.
Brittany Laughlin: Thank you.
Brittany Laughlin: And so
Brittany Laughlin: My updates and my stand up, also with the Sox foundation updates. So I'll just combine those two and so
Brittany Laughlin: I did share the the bylaws for the board. And so those are the bylaws that are pretty standard for any nonprofit but I created an issue on GitHub.
Brittany Laughlin: So if anyone wants to take a look and read through, but I would love feedback on those bylaws, because the next step will be those bylaws being
Brittany Laughlin: Accepted in by the board members at our first board meeting, which will take place next week and those board minutes and all of the things that happened that board meeting will be public. Mainly it's
Brittany Laughlin: The focus is on getting the organization and actually officially up and running by having these bylaws as part of that.
Brittany Laughlin: And the other thing that's top of mind is, you know, this call for board combinations. And so after we have the first board meeting, and then we will
Brittany Laughlin: You know, we can consider board nominations for a future board meeting, and so that gives them time to create
Brittany Laughlin: You know more of a way to introduce any other nominations. Who do you want to be considered to the community and then ran on how to do that.
Brittany Laughlin: And that would also include you know this discussion around a community board seat and how that will function and how that will look because I think that and
Brittany Laughlin: You know, I've been looking just for more information on that topic that I'd love to create a GitHub issue and then more people can weigh in on that.
Brittany Laughlin: So next steps for that is, is a is sharing more about the research.
Brittany Laughlin: For how other board nominations work and then sharing the probably sharing the board nomination to date. Once we have permission from those people that they like are interested in being considered.
Brittany Laughlin: So those are my updates. On that
Lane Rettig: Thank you for the comprehensive update
Brittany Laughlin: The next thing on our agenda is action items. And so the first action item is the Sox foundation bylaws. So that's issue number 63 GitHub.
Brittany Laughlin: So yes, again, if you have a chance to take a look at it it's it's a few pages. It is
Brittany Laughlin: Mostly legal language. But I think it's important to know kind of how the operations work.
Brittany Laughlin: And the next action item is around meeting roles, responsibilities and bounties and I may tap Jason on this one because I know he he put some work in, and I think I saline in there as well. And on on this particular action item. If you want to
Brittany Laughlin: Talk to that.
Jason Schrader: Yes.
Jason Schrader: This one is sort of
Jason Schrader: Looking at things from from the bigger picture, like I mentioned earlier. So when we were
Jason Schrader: Talking about meetings and what it takes to get a consistent experience out of each one and how we want things like the recordings and the notes to flow. And what we want to do.
Jason Schrader: I came up with a proposal based on the conversation. So originally a lot of this started in issue number 36
Jason Schrader: But we've since created this new one. It's number 62 and now that way. Everybody can try and memorize numbers because I know that's that's really easy. Right.
Jason Schrader: But the, the idea around this was to define specific roles and specific actionable items to make each meeting consistent
Jason Schrader: And some of those include like we've always had a moderator moderator goes over the agenda reviews the whole meeting, everything like that makes sense.
Jason Schrader: The one that I'm kind of testing out today is this idea of a meeting. Secretary, where I take notes related to these action items. Specifically, if there are
Jason Schrader: Actions like an ask from the person who presented the action item or if there's an assignment like saying, oh, I will do this, then we try to get that recorded as well.
Jason Schrader: And then relaying that back into both this agenda and creating the agenda for next week right away. So there's a
Jason Schrader: Concrete list of tasks that I kind of proposed in this issue number 62 around meeting roles and
Jason Schrader: In addition to that, I also got some feedback. Thank you to Harold and Juliet both who who got back to me on those for
Jason Schrader: Just being willing to pick up some of the other pieces like we used to have a regular community update that followed the notes.
Jason Schrader: And I like it as sort of a disjointed task, but something that we could easily share to the forum or maybe eventually put some of the content in a blog or something else. So there's been some interest there and we're just trying to figure out, like what would be
Jason Schrader: What would be the minimum requirement to actually have like a set of meetings that we can look back and look at everything, whether that be an audio recording and transcript.
Jason Schrader: And then what would be the nice to haves on top of that, that we can still form like a concrete thing around to incentivize people so that's that's the long form version of what we're talking about there.
Jason Schrader: And I, my biggest ass with that is just any feedback so anybody who wants to say we should do this, we shouldn't do that. I like this part. I don't like this part definitely encourage you to take a look at that and I will post a link to that issue in the chat as well.
Jason Schrader: I think
Brittany Laughlin: That Jason Yeah, I think it's, um, there's a lot of good point that you bring up in in that
Brittany Laughlin: Issue. So just want to make sure that people could see it.
Brittany Laughlin: So the, you know, some of the other action items here are catching up on the resources and so maybe it's kind of in a similar
Brittany Laughlin: Umbrella just you know the past calls and the notes that we have a number of things that, you know, a number of places which we kind of document everything that's happened today. And so people can utilize us to catch up on those
Brittany Laughlin: The next issue is around, issue number 60 following up or with survey respondents if there was an update on that.
Lane Rettig: Yeah, I think I said that I would own this task. I don't have an update on it.
Lane Rettig: Just as a recap what we talked about last week was maybe wanting to have something to share.
Lane Rettig: As part of the process of responding to the survey respondents. And so, maybe, for example, did the blog post. Introducing the governance working group.
Lane Rettig: Maybe we can talk about the status of babby might want to share that. But yeah, happy to continue on this task, and hopefully we'll have more to report next week. And of course, if anyone has ideas like please jump in. Feel free to comment on it now be a good time.
Phillip Roe: Now was sorry. Yeah.
Phillip Roe: I was thinking just tonight.
Phillip Roe: Just
Phillip Roe: An idea before everything is
Phillip Roe: Get
Phillip Roe: Made or finalized. And in a way, legally, is to have a like
Phillip Roe: A general presentation of what we have what we call it. We but as as been as as a general concept of we we've seen that has been accomplished and then
Phillip Roe: Kind of a general meeting forever all the blocks that community about achievements, you know, the, the, the bylaws, that is coming up and and then all the resources that are compiled and and you know and then all the other work has been done some results of the survey.
Phillip Roe: Yes, like a general
Phillip Roe: The state of the of the art of what we mean.
Phillip Roe: Been done not in written form, but it's as a as a as an a video conference so that I make a general call for for that.
Phillip Roe: And before before advancing more
Phillip Roe: So, and also to, to put it as as as an important part that this, this, this.
Phillip Roe: Is going to
Phillip Roe: Get you know that in this
Phillip Roe: Ecosystem. That's something that
Phillip Roe: And worry that we are not so aware of this important
Brittany Laughlin: Thing.
Lane Rettig: Quick question, but Philip. I think that's a great idea. I'm just curious how, how do you see that being similar to or different from our regular Working Group calls like do you think that we get a different group of people to attend. For instance, or how might we sort of market it to people.
Phillip Roe: Yes, the thing is that the people you know that this
Lane Rettig: Was
Lane Rettig: An output of
Phillip Roe: That
Phillip Roe: First or Second whatever presentation, Wisconsin, but it's because sometimes you know to 10
Phillip Roe: Working Group probably that people you know the the general general public, one, one. Do that they don't understand why should that do that.
Phillip Roe: But then, just like a briefing on what's been done and then we pointer. So, so they can read because of course all that information is on the on the sea, but then also
Phillip Roe: We need to advertise it or marketing.
Phillip Roe: Really
Phillip Roe: And it's very important. It's more important than real
Jason Schrader: Quick lane. Can you mute.
Lane Rettig: Yeah, I'm sorry.
Jason Schrader: Sorry, background noise. No.
Phillip Roe: One more.
cappuccino, please.
Phillip Roe: Summer. So then it's, it's all right i mean it's it's just
Phillip Roe: It's just one more like like name has done some announcements and all that, that
Phillip Roe: Let's make a bigger announcement or or you know what's going on. This is that, and so then it's more because it's it's a good steak. I mean, it's a big meal is not just some chips and all that. And you know that you can take them and you know it's a big, big meal that we
Phillip Roe: As well. I've seen
Phillip Roe: Marriages, you see. And so then there's a good opportunity to share that for them. Don't be so shy.
Lane Rettig: Thanks for ya know I think that makes sense.
Lane Rettig: I just wonder, the timing and the format like would we want this to be a regular thing would we want this to be maybe instead of calling it a regular working group call we have like a
Lane Rettig: Like a town hall and maybe it's a quarterly thing. And maybe we do market it a little bit more widely. Yeah, I'm all for anything that you know
Lane Rettig: Takes the governance message to a wider audience.
Brittany Laughlin: Yeah, echoing
Brittany Laughlin: What lane said, I think that that's
Brittany Laughlin: Yeah, having a different form in which to kind of get those updates and invite people and share because I think what's nice about this group is that we can
Brittany Laughlin: Go through a lot of different topics and kind of move quickly. But I think if we're broadcasting more of the things that we're doing and direct people to ways it can happen call
Brittany Laughlin: Hopefully, I have a much wider audience.
Brittany Laughlin: So maybe the action item there is then to figure out what the you know when that town hall will be maybe no monthly. Maybe it's bi monthly but I'm creating space for that. Oh, that sounds good.
Brittany Laughlin: Some the next action items are the governance landing page.
Brittany Laughlin: Issue number 45
Brittany Laughlin: And so I know that this is
Brittany Laughlin: Lane and Jason have been working on this around, you know, updating things and GitHub. So I don't know if we've already sort of covered this with some of the reorganization, or if there's any additional comment. Want to make you
Jason Schrader: Yeah, so this one.
Jason Schrader: Is a tough one for me. Like, it keeps going between action item and and sort of an open discussion item, but, you know, it sounds like in the
Jason Schrader: Last few calls and what we've talked about that GitHub pages would be a great way to take what we've done in GitHub and make it in an easier to
Jason Schrader: Digest format for everybody. So we just need some action items sort of assigned around that. So I'm going to make a note here.
Jason Schrader: And I'm also going to take some ownership on this one. I probably said that last week, too. But I just want to
Jason Schrader: Really see this kind of move into the next step and and see what we can do with it. So I'll definitely be a little more involved with this one. And if
Jason Schrader: I think it was last week i to i put an ask out there. If anybody is really familiar with, with GitHub pages or or an expert at it, then I would, I would love to assign them along with me on this one. But if not, it's it'll be fun to learn. So either way,
Lane Rettig: Jason. I'm so yeah thanks thanks for setting up really efficient on everyone's behalf, I would definitely not call myself an expert, but I have set up several web pages using GitHub pages.
Lane Rettig: Before I'm pretty comfortable with it. So I'm happy to
Lane Rettig: Be the kind of go to person for the technical side of things. And if anyone else listening to this has experience with computers and let us know.
Brittany Laughlin: I've used it just for a simple single page. So I would be curious to learn more, to just
Brittany Laughlin: You know how to better use of functionality so
Brittany Laughlin: If you guys want to hop on a call. I'd be happy to see how it works good.
Phillip Roe: GOOD COP can be very sophisticated also
Phillip Roe: Yeah i mean it's it's you have done a good job. Jason to put all that together. So let's learn learn what you have done and and then from that.
Phillip Roe: It's a good base to see if we can improve that. But I think that the yes to learn what you have done in a practical way that's that's a wonderful action that we can do I can also, as I told you, and I'm ready to learn, of course, famous passes so quickly that
Phillip Roe: Whether
Jason Schrader: You yeah I'm in agreement with you on that Philip I felt the same way with the last week just kind of flew out from under me and I didn't really know what happened at the time there but
Jason Schrader: I think the biggest thing is just like you said, and something we kind of mentioned earlier is, you know, we have this ability to do a lot of things with GitHub, whether it's the pages.
Jason Schrader: That are issues or a project board or even assignments and we want to find the definitely the easiest path to move forward. But I also like consistency.
Jason Schrader: So I love this idea. I think if we just move forward to take what we have and presented. Then we're going to learn how to better organize it and all sort of work together towards these goals so that
Jason Schrader: I agree, and thank you everyone for for being willing to help out. I got you all noted down and we'll, we'll get started on this one.
Brittany Laughlin: Next item was around the blog post. So I know that Jenny was leading the charge on this and I think she asked for revisions on the blog one I've seen some comments in there. And so I guess just the action item. If people have time to kind of look at the blog post. I think it's a
Brittany Laughlin: It's a great introduction to some of the work that we're doing. And if we can get that published. I think that would be a great win for for this group just kind of outlining some of the stuff that we've done but
Jason Schrader: Yes, I will. Second, that when she sent me a message about not being
Jason Schrader: available today. But the biggest acts was to really look at those revisions for that for that first blog post. So if anybody else can jump in there, make any more comments we definitely welcome it but I'm on board. We want to get it out and get it going.
Brittany Laughlin: The next topic. I know that this has been a big one in discord. It's issue number 14 around meeting conference software selection. And so the
Brittany Laughlin: Question is around using this software that we're using now so we're using zoom for calls. But I think moving to something that is more in line with
Brittany Laughlin: Sort of the open source movement as well as you know, supporting people's privacy and digital rights and
Brittany Laughlin: There were some questions of whether Zoom is the best fit for that. So I think we've been looking for feedback on an alternative service that can meet our needs.
Brittany Laughlin: So Jason I talked a little bit about this over chat, but just around, you know, first off, we have to have good voice quality. If nothing else, because otherwise.
Brittany Laughlin: If we can't talk, then that's, you know, kind of defeats the purpose. That's number one. I think the ability to record is really important. So we can share these calls with our community. And then, you know, making sure that
Brittany Laughlin: There's low friction for people to be able to get on to the calls so like if we want to have these wide open. Are people able to join.
Brittany Laughlin: Do they have options of, you know, of login so if you know they're not restricted to something like a closed ecosystem, like Google or close to something like Facebook so
Brittany Laughlin: Just looking for those. So if you have some input advice that issue number 14 is a place for that. And I think the next step on that is actually we're going to start testing some of these alternative services in the coming weeks to see if they suit our needs and we can switch over recording
Jason Schrader: Yes. And I'll add a just an organizational comment to that. So this was originally an issue around having a shared zoom pro account.
Jason Schrader: And then, of creating a new one and going down that avenue. We already had some discussion in here. So I kind of changed the title on number 14. That's why it's got such a low number
Jason Schrader: Compared to all the others with the comments toward the end totally outline some of those thoughts that Brittany and I talked about
Jason Schrader: And I had some input from from another community member as well who helped me come up with just some some basic nice to haves and
Jason Schrader: Trying to think of that need to have versus nice to have and what would be really functional for us. So definitely welcome any feedback there. I also have
Jason Schrader: Some software that we discussed in discord that I want to list in that issue and I just haven't gotten to that point yet.
Jason Schrader: But this is our placeholder for it. And this is where we're going to start taking action on it. So definitely, anybody who wants to be a part of that and help make that decision. Please take a look at that issue and get involved.
Phillip Roe: Well, I think that
Phillip Roe: Looking
Phillip Roe: For the other alternatives is
Brittany Laughlin: This good
Phillip Roe: But we cannot be so strict the ominous. The word strict is not the word is
Phillip Roe: Inflexible have you know that if this is a paid
Phillip Roe: Service and is
Phillip Roe: It should, we should not accept it. I mean it's, I think that we sometimes is we get too much of a
Phillip Roe: fanatic on certain things. So then we should it be moderate on this thing we have to look for ways of course they're getting information from us in this meeting and then publishing and getting rich because of that and and you know that's not the attitude.
Phillip Roe: But I think I've seen the so some know that, of course, you know, the other solutions that have been the functional. It is not as good as this one. That's why they have been
Phillip Roe: Very successful, even though the the big guys you know they've been trying to put, put them down.
Phillip Roe: But of course we had to look for other opportunities and I did the exercise and and typically, but for the moment that this is the best for the price not even bluejeans is as good as this and also the price is high.
Phillip Roe: And also there is the way to work have
Phillip Roe: Breakup breakout groups. That's also very helpful functionality that we
Phillip Roe: Were four people, we cannot do much, but, or, or eight people 10 people, but if you have
Phillip Roe: 50 people together or hundred people, you know, it's good to have a breakout session. So those are the things that are already probably the, the solution, please. Still, if you see one of the best
Phillip Roe: Well, we have to Keep looking.
Jason Schrader: Hey, I appreciate that Philip and i and i agree. I think the best thing we can do is, is to keep looking. Right. And I do want to say that, you know, while we talk
Brittany Laughlin: About open source. So we've come across things like Jesse or
Jason Schrader: Anything else. And we've done a little bit of testing here in there. It's really more about
Jason Schrader: You know we do, we do we feel like if we're if we're going to pay you know annually for something like maybe there's another service, we can pay for it doesn't even have to be free. But who are we supporting with the dollars. And why is an
Jason Schrader: Important question. I think to ask, but it's definitely been hard to
Jason Schrader: Match, a lot of the quality that we have here, but that's where this list comes together. So in that issue. And I've kind of tagged you with some of your comments here.
Jason Schrader: In my notes, but in that issue. We were talking about if we know our need to have and are nice to have.
Jason Schrader: Type items, then we can really start evaluating some of these other services like yeah it's nice to see me on video, but we we don't need video we really just need the audio and the current speaker.
Jason Schrader: And starting to decide. Like what do we really need. And if we limit that focus it might give us some other options that we may not have considered like even
Jason Schrader: Even with Jesse, for example, I was thinking, what about paying for eight by eight pro their meeting software versus zoom. If it was comparable but those are the kind of questions that will ask, and we'll get into later on. And like I said, we got to try just to see
Brittany Laughlin: Ya think you bring up, you know, it's like a new ones process, but I think pursuing a good alternative is worthwhile. So thank you, Phillip for your comments and
Brittany Laughlin: I'm so those are all the action items in the agenda today, but in the open discussion. There's a few
Brittany Laughlin: Different topics. I don't know if we wanted to prioritize if anyone had one in particular that they wanted to talk to
Brittany Laughlin: Or if you wanted me to read through them. I can do that as well.
Jason Schrader: Just real quick, looking over over this list. And when I was trying to reorganize the agenda today. I didn't get a chance to move Harold's one pager up to action items.
Jason Schrader: But I'm Harold was asking. He's got a one pager for the fab Academy me meeting and issue number 54 and he's done some
Jason Schrader: Other work around to I don't I don't actually see it linked here for some reason. So I'm going to try and find that, but I know that was a big ask of his was that we look at that.
Jason Schrader: Just to get some updates going on there. Otherwise, I think they're just all the open topics for discussion. So I'll let you run with it from there.
Lane Rettig: I want to
Lane Rettig: Share something. Sorry, I'm, I'm in the middle of breakfast and I'm chewing. So I apologize.
Lane Rettig: Um,
Lane Rettig: It is, yeah. And it's
Lane Rettig: I tried to fast a little bit in the mornings and postpone breakfast, as long as I can give it
Lane Rettig: The second item on this list is the long term projects were governance working group.
Lane Rettig: I think we talked about this in the last call. And I remember correctly, Jenny.
Lane Rettig: jumped in and shared a very helpful comment which was like we can't talk about specific tasks or projects without talking about the bigger picture questions around like kind of goals.
Lane Rettig: You know, it's kind of all the same things that we've been talking about in governance, like what are our values. What are our principles, what are our goals.
Lane Rettig: Anyway, I just wanted to sort of remind the group, maybe that should be a separate bullet point, maybe it's part of this number 56 the second bullet point
Lane Rettig: But I do think that's a good starting wonder, are kind of short, medium and long term goals as as a working group and then related. How do those connects to or not.
Lane Rettig: You know, kind of Brittany your goals for the foundation and just sort of, you know, again, the principles and values of the product ecosystem and community.
Lane Rettig: We don't, we don't have to go much deeper than just just just kind of, I guess the question is do we think that that should be a separate discussion item or do we think that that falls under the same bullet point
Lane Rettig: All
Jason Schrader: I think we keep coming up to this in a few different ways we look down at our founding document review it comes back to mission and values. And part of that is
Jason Schrader: Even the code of conduct and anything else. And it's also the the
Lane Rettig: cart before the horse thing of
Lane Rettig: Having the
Jason Schrader: Foundation and and doing it all together. So I think a lot of this just keeps keeps coming up in separate buckets. So I don't know if we need a whole new
Jason Schrader: Issue for that. Or maybe we do. I don't know. That's, that's been a tough one for me. And that's where this project management aspect I would really like to
Jason Schrader: Figure out a better flow to make it easier to come up with an idea like that have an action on it and have a result. So the idea of a micro task or a separate issue is probably the, the best way to go because we can always lump them together and we can always always
Jason Schrader: Make it more complicated later.
Phillip Roe: Probably in the agenda.
Phillip Roe: Put them in a predator.
Phillip Roe: A priority list. So those are the
Phillip Roe: Aspects that
Phillip Roe: Are the essential purpose of the of the working group. So those are the things that we have to cover at least, you know, discuss get into that and and all this operational stuff probably should be later.
Phillip Roe: Okay.
Lane Rettig: Yeah, I think that this task could be renamed from long term.
Lane Rettig: Projects to just roadmap in general. And I think that it encompasses the things we're talking about, I don't know that we need a separate task for the principles, values things we do have an open, you know, proposals have questions about all that stuff pretty thanks for sharing your thoughts.
Lane Rettig: Okay.
Brittany Laughlin: Yeah, thankfully. And I think that that's all good. So renaming this and making it
Brittany Laughlin: Clear auction him and then we can
Brittany Laughlin: sell the product.
Brittany Laughlin: Are there any other
Brittany Laughlin: Discussion items.
Brittany Laughlin: To address today.
Phillip Roe: Look at the BIOS
Phillip Roe: And then put my comments as
Phillip Roe: On the bottom of
Phillip Roe: That
Phillip Roe: And publish obligation and not to play with today and
Phillip Roe: So it's just yet, a matter of, you know, I don't believe in this process and
Phillip Roe: And I've seen is a way to manipulate things. And so then you put a very important figure in as a member of the board of director and that board.
Phillip Roe: Member of my member number participates and puts a and it gets a proxy. And so that's the only thing that I don't like the proxies, because this
Phillip Roe: Some people, you know, behaving on no windows, no responsibility. So in order to avoid that it's better to
Phillip Roe: Know the be the ones that present, not the ones that
Phillip Roe: Have been represented
Phillip Roe: And then there was some other things. But the one of one aspect this spoon. Probably, yes. But couple things.
Phillip Roe: I don't know how we're going to
Phillip Roe: Change that or
Phillip Roe: But that does my just my comment.
Phillip Roe: Thanks, guys.
Brittany Laughlin: Are there any other items. People want to discuss on this call. I know.
Brittany Laughlin: We got through that agenda, very quickly. So thank you for organizing it. Jason that made a very helpful very actionable.
Brittany Laughlin: But are there any other things that maybe we didn't cover that we we should today.
Jason Schrader: No, I think a lot of what we've
Jason Schrader: We've come up with on this.
Jason Schrader: open discussion list are items that we just definitely wanted to keep it top of mind until we actually find a way to close them out or or to further discuss the topics or anything like that but
Jason Schrader: I also feel like this is where that reorganization comes in, you know, something like the shared resources I have for number 33
Jason Schrader: And a little bit of what we're talking about, and acting on towards the meeting conference and even a lot of this operational stuff like phyllo
Jason Schrader: It's, it's been tough because like I think we're in some ways, getting a little bit too caught up on a few of these things. And I like that.
Jason Schrader: This whole action assignment thing I think is going to be really helpful. So in the coming weeks. I'm hoping to change this process a little bit and definitely open to any feedback as we go along and
Jason Schrader: Hopefully we can get some some better clear answers to some of the things we have on the list here.
Jason Schrader: And
Brittany Laughlin: You know, in thinking about that. I know that this call, we have it every week and we're going over these topics I wonder
Brittany Laughlin: You know, if we would consider doing our update calls maybe every other week and then using those off weeks, either we can meet here or kind of as more working meetings because I think
Brittany Laughlin: It's great that people dedicate so much time to this meeting, but if we are spending more time just talking about the issues and not necessarily and having the time to kind of dig into that and maybe that's a way that we could
Brittany Laughlin: Look to do that or just, you know, reserve that time as individuals to kind of work on things and just switch these meetings to
Brittany Laughlin: Every other week but
Brittany Laughlin: Or we keep them and then have separate meetings and if anyone has any thoughts on
Brittany Laughlin: Like changing the format or or dedicating time as a group to actually
Brittany Laughlin: Take action on Sundays.
Lane Rettig: I definitely
Lane Rettig: Share the sentiment that we may be spending a lot of time on things and less time doing some of them. I mean, I think you can see that when the same topic comes up, you know, week after week after week and we don't really have updates on it.
Lane Rettig: I'm all for experimentation Brittany I think that that's a great idea, like you know i i don't think that the choice to do these calls weekly or to do them for exactly an hour was a very intentional choice.
Lane Rettig: I think it was just sort of a default, you know, like, because that it was modeled after kind of work that way. And it worked for other groups that doesn't mean that it has to work for us, the same way.
Lane Rettig: So I think like switching things up trying a bi weekly format, you know, having working, you know, calls and the off weeks or something is a super cool idea. I definitely support that.
Lane Rettig: Well,
Brittany Laughlin: You know, I think we're always good at experimenting here so potentially maybe next week's call and, you know, we take some of these issues, maybe
Brittany Laughlin: You know, we've we've mentioned like better organized and GitHub and maybe that also includes people being able to
Brittany Laughlin: Understand how they can contribute where they can contribute and that may be something that would be valuable and maybe even in recording part of that would be helpful to distribute to the community as well. Like, how do they get
Brittany Laughlin: You know, how did they find the materials they want. How do they contribute could be something we did there, or for collectively, you know, providing comments on the blog posts. I think we may be able to move some of these things along.
Brittany Laughlin: Fairly quickly, I think, you know, a lot of our issues that we have open our maybe 80% of the way there or 90% of the way there. And so just kind of going through something results.
Jason Schrader: Are like that. And what that made me think of is commonly what we see with like the development team and
Brittany Laughlin: Not the engineering calls or
Jason Schrader: Online is the term sprint, you know, we say, hey, I want to get these things done by the end of the month, or at the end of the quarter or these are the, the focus goals to get them from that 75 80% all the way to 100 and off the list. So I like that. I made some notes.
Jason Schrader: Around that idea and I think, yeah, the best thing we can do is keep experimenting. You know, I want to make sure that
Jason Schrader: I my biggest goal is just to make sure things are simple, right. Like, I don't want people to feel like it's too complex to get involved. I don't want to create a huge overbearing structure or anything like that. That's going to limit anybody
Jason Schrader: But I'd also like to see how we can generate consistency and create that. And, you know, have a flow of sorts. So I say we just, we just keep trying. I'm definitely open to any input on on my side.
Phillip Roe: But the priority. We have as Brittany was saying, maybe we can every other week, and I like
Phillip Roe: One of the points that we have not sold especially long term ones I probably don't know last not too much a long term like principles and and code of conduct or the other ones that are
Phillip Roe: Top of Mind, but those are those are probably we can prepare
Phillip Roe: For a whole week. Yes. Was that the subject, but that topic and then
Phillip Roe: So then we can concentrate and all the minds and invite people, you know, the package that day and and we'll have a look on that just one topic and we try to advise on that.
Phillip Roe: Because it's it's quite broad. And we saw so is how you cope with the with the expanding knowledge and then and then you have done a good job and trying to capture that spending knowledge and in the in the resources, but it still is funding. I mean, if you cannot
Phillip Roe: Freeze that I mean so
Phillip Roe: Then we have to digging into that and then
Phillip Roe: And then to see if we can make some actors or take make a decisions or may come up with some ideas and and like a proposal or whatever.
Phillip Roe: So I think that the complexity is required more complex ways to to do it. So then, then we need to have all their all their minds working on that subject than
Phillip Roe: Just one.
Phillip Roe: So maybe there are sources. This is just a
Phillip Roe: It doesn't have to be the point me to look for just one topic. And then, then we are going to realize that if there are sources.
Phillip Roe: Are
Phillip Roe: We understand it or not. So we had to apply what we have done so, as they were saying that you have to eat your own dog has its own dog food for everyone wants to say, yeah.
Brittany Laughlin: You gotta eat your own dog food.
Yeah.
Phillip Roe: Yeah.
Brittany Laughlin: Okay, so I think you know what I'm hearing is the, you know, making sure that the topic is
Brittany Laughlin: Media for that we we pick one and we really focus on it and get a lot of different insights during that hour so
Brittany Laughlin: Yeah, so
Brittany Laughlin: Yeah, so we can try the new video conferencing system, a new format to
Lane Rettig: kill, kill two birds with one stone will fill up. I think that's a great idea. You know, I'm looking, I think a lot of the, you know, action items on these calls is kind of like, take a look at x and provide feedback on it.
Lane Rettig: And a lot of the times we're kind of sitting around waiting for feedback before things happen, like the blog post is a good recent example of this. And so if instead we kind of say, hey,
Lane Rettig: There's going to be a call. We're going to dedicate most of them all to this topic and maybe someone's going to present them. We're going to give people a chance to feedback. And then at the end of that call.
Lane Rettig: Maybe there's a final 24 hours for comment or something and then we move on, across the item on our list. I think that that's a good idea.
Brittany Laughlin: Alright, so I think we have some action items for next week and for next week's call, obviously, in the meantime, there's a number of other issues that would weigh in on. Is there anything else we should cover in the call today.
Phillip Roe: Let's put a goal of this general presentation.
Phillip Roe: We're in June, then maybe I'd beginning of July, we can get a give a
Phillip Roe: Briefing
Phillip Roe: We have a lot of thing just to talk about it. And that will be. That's what we we we have seen that could be done. Yeah, that would be a lot of
Phillip Roe: Us, you know, marketing and invite a lot of people and
Phillip Roe: Have a party in the
Brittany Laughlin: Town Hall town hall type setting up like that kind of
Phillip Roe: Kind of
Phillip Roe: I believe it is the
Phillip Roe: Majors I stock into town.
Phillip Roe: And
Phillip Roe: But the thing is the governance that concept and then why so important. The governance and then that this flying wheel.
Phillip Roe: Presentation was very enlightening in terms of the business model that is behind it. And so then, then
Phillip Roe: We have to stress that because that that business model that we're trying to, to put in place as that's Patrick. Patrick idea of
Phillip Roe: Making the people understand that business model. And so, so probably that's, that's something that can be presented and I'll tell you we don't you all all know that we have a lot of things.
Phillip Roe: And presentation of the survey and whatever we have come up with that.
Phillip Roe: And then and I kind of have a kind of
Phillip Roe: And
Phillip Roe: Share that percent so what what are the topics that are coming up next July in August. And why do we want to have some kind of idea of a roadmap of things that we have to face.
Phillip Roe: Because this is important thing, of course we are, we are as a similar alchemy.
Phillip Roe: Alchemy now we walk
Phillip Roe: We are making the past while we walk nothing because there are no no road. No. So then we whatever
Phillip Roe: We do is, that's the road.
Brittany Laughlin: Yeah.
Brittany Laughlin: I like that thing.
Brittany Laughlin: Well, perhaps we end on that.
Brittany Laughlin: Trigger commentary around, you know,
Brittany Laughlin: We, there is no roads that we're making it as we walk it
Brittany Laughlin: Right. Well, thank you guys all for joining today and I will make sure and post this recording on YouTube. I'll stop recording and then we can you know if there's anything else.
Lane Rettig: Thanks, everybody.
