# 20200806 Governance Working Group Call 21

Note: *The content below is a raw, unedited transcript from Zoom.*

-----

1
00:00:01.800 --> 00:00:12.150
Jenny Mith: Hey, every buddy. Welcome to the governance working group meeting number 21 although that's debatable number 20 didn't happen. But we can get into that in a little bit.

2
00:00:13.080 --> 00:00:26.220
Jenny Mith: Today is Thursday, August six, and it's just a little past noon Eastern Time. How does everyone feel about the new time for this meeting. I'm hoping folks are more awake. I am, which is great. Yeah.

3
00:00:27.480 --> 00:00:29.760
Jenny Mith: Okay rave reviews of the new time

4
00:00:31.110 --> 00:00:37.140
Jenny Mith: Awesome. Okay. So today's meeting is going to be a little different from the ones that we've had previously.

5
00:00:37.560 --> 00:00:46.950
Jenny Mith: Just based on the retro call that we had a couple weeks ago and in which we discussed. Possibly. Possibly in which we discussed at developing a

6
00:00:47.490 --> 00:00:55.860
Jenny Mith: grant proposal to fund and support this working group moving forward. And I think it's as Brittany said it's going to be a great way to

7
00:00:56.160 --> 00:01:09.540
Jenny Mith: Test out the grant dial platform that the sack foundation is coming out with. So I found an agenda here that is specifically cater to that, although I know there are some outstanding issues that we still have to

8
00:01:10.260 --> 00:01:18.300
Jenny Mith: Address. So that is actually the first action item here is asking ourselves what outstanding work, do we still have to complete

9
00:01:18.570 --> 00:01:24.660
Jenny Mith: And can any of that work be accommodated by the governance working group grant proposal that we are going to start working on today.

10
00:01:24.960 --> 00:01:36.030
Jenny Mith: So the person going to call out or that for any initial opinions is Jason, Jason. I know you've done a ton of work in this area and just making sure our standard operating procedures are

11
00:01:37.350 --> 00:01:49.350
Jenny Mith: Amazing and seamless. I know there are a bunch of open issues. I'm wondering if of those issues, there's anything that is, you know, very much outstanding that lives outside the scope of the grant proposal that we should address now.

12
00:01:54.870 --> 00:01:55.230
Jason Schrader: Sure.

13
00:01:55.290 --> 00:02:02.940
Jason Schrader: So I was just like, dropping a few links into the chat for everybody for today's agenda, our previous agenda for what would have been meeting.

14
00:02:03.930 --> 00:02:12.450
Jason Schrader: And then where we keep the resources for the past meetings and everything else and the probably the biggest question I had is, you know, if we really like this.

15
00:02:12.750 --> 00:02:22.830
Jason Schrader: Structure of how we track meetings and we update the tables, just how should we fit everything back in considering the retro meeting and sort of our restructuring here a bit

16
00:02:23.280 --> 00:02:30.900
Jason Schrader: And I think the easiest way to do that would be to call the last meeting meeting number 20 call this one number 21 and just keep moving.

17
00:02:31.290 --> 00:02:34.710
Jason Schrader: Simple as always best unless we have any major objections to that.

18
00:02:35.400 --> 00:02:46.080
Jason Schrader: But in doing that. I was curious, you know, we have this sort of rolling agenda of action items and discussion items that we would do per meeting. So back in the project management.

19
00:02:46.590 --> 00:02:58.950
Jason Schrader: Repository issue number 72. There were quite a few things we were talking about at the times. Like we you know we were still going over what some of the board nominations community board seat by laws, those kind of things.

20
00:02:59.310 --> 00:03:08.580
Jason Schrader: And we are finishing up the survey which we had a follow up with survey respondents that I don't think has happened yet. That would probably be one. We can definitely talk about and then

21
00:03:09.240 --> 00:03:18.750
Jason Schrader: We've got this landing page that we've developed so that all the resources on GitHub are now displayed online just at a github.io domain through GitHub pages.

22
00:03:19.350 --> 00:03:26.520
Jason Schrader: So that was, that was the main parts of it and the rest was pretty much discussion, but I was more curious of the the main conversation of how

23
00:03:27.120 --> 00:03:32.460
Jason Schrader: Everyone feels like we should carry these issues like should we continue to carry them from meeting to meeting.

24
00:03:33.090 --> 00:03:44.580
Jason Schrader: Did we like that system. Is there anything we want to change about it before I go and add anything to, let's say, like the agenda for the next meeting or something like that. So I'll give a few seconds for feedback on that.

25
00:03:57.660 --> 00:03:59.520
Jenny Mith: Actually, I had a comment on this and

26
00:03:59.640 --> 00:04:01.380
Jenny Mith: I think this came up in the retro meeting.

27
00:04:01.680 --> 00:04:16.650
Jenny Mith: But this idea of different work stream so seems like these issues, pretty much that span all of our governance issues and or in all of our different interests and perhaps like a model of

28
00:04:17.370 --> 00:04:30.840
Jenny Mith: Having work streams, on which we report on more like a semi monthly basis or asynchronously might be more effective and productive. So I don't know exactly how we would

29
00:04:31.710 --> 00:04:41.250
Jenny Mith: Be categorizing those different work streams. But things like what Harold is working on for example would be one specific work stream and things like

30
00:04:42.450 --> 00:04:49.500
Jenny Mith: That for nominations would correspond to a work stream specifically around stack foundation governance.

31
00:04:50.370 --> 00:05:01.350
Jenny Mith: And some of the more administrative things around like standard operating procedures would would be part of a work stream on how on you know how the governance working group works. I don't know what what folks think about that.

32
00:05:08.190 --> 00:05:19.110
Jason Schrader: I definitely think that's a, that's a good point and I dropped a link over to the original form that we set up when we were talking about these type of meetings and some of the questions that I wanted to ask everybody were what

33
00:05:19.410 --> 00:05:30.480
Jason Schrader: Type of meeting should we have, you know, like we've had a really cool action session where we all sat here and we spent the time working together we propose the idea for a discussion type session where it's like, hey, we have a

34
00:05:30.780 --> 00:05:41.130
Jason Schrader: really in depth concept and we want to explain it to everybody. And same with the town hall and the other meeting types. So in in that way. I think what I would recommend is

35
00:05:42.180 --> 00:05:47.910
Jason Schrader: We really have two options like we can continue carrying the issues from agenda to agenda to Agenda, which I don't see any issue with

36
00:05:48.330 --> 00:05:58.950
Jason Schrader: Or we could move some of those longer form discussion type items or even the action items into a living document in the repository. So it would be

37
00:05:59.250 --> 00:06:03.390
Jason Schrader: That would actually make it available on the website versus only in the issues.

38
00:06:03.870 --> 00:06:13.080
Jason Schrader: And it would give us some ways to say like, hey, we have these topics we want to schedule a meeting around this topic and and we can address them via those separate work streams.

39
00:06:14.010 --> 00:06:26.040
Jason Schrader: So I'm seeing a little bit of feedback in the chat. We have Juliet and Harold agreeing to rolling things within the issues. So with that sort of new idea that I propose there with anybody.

40
00:06:26.820 --> 00:06:39.120
Jason Schrader: Would anybody prefer to do it in a living document that could live on the website versus just carrying it over and each agenda issue or do you still feel strongly that they should flow with the agenda.

41
00:06:40.920 --> 00:06:41.730
Jason Schrader: And again, I'll pause

42
00:06:45.420 --> 00:06:51.810
Jenny Mith: And maybe perhaps said compromising I like the idea of having a living document, just because I

43
00:06:51.810 --> 00:06:55.140
Jenny Mith: Like seeing the live collaboration between books in the

44
00:06:55.560 --> 00:07:13.140
Jenny Mith: Document. But maybe if it's carried if updates are carried from issue to issue as like a section so like a work stream section in each issue that could also take care of that. Julius point about it, keeping agenda items top of mind for her.

45
00:07:16.770 --> 00:07:17.640
Jenny Mith: Does that make sense.

46
00:07:18.690 --> 00:07:20.640
Jenny Mith: It makes sense my head, but I was thinking about it.

47
00:07:25.320 --> 00:07:25.680
Phillip Roe: Now,

48
00:07:26.550 --> 00:07:27.060
Phillip Roe: Would be

49
00:07:28.650 --> 00:07:29.010
Phillip Roe: Something

50
00:07:35.250 --> 00:07:41.280
Phillip Roe: I think that we, the most important aspect is to try to advance it in

51
00:07:42.960 --> 00:07:50.160
Phillip Roe: In in our can say Objective C. And that's why that's in

52
00:07:51.390 --> 00:08:02.730
Phillip Roe: And what I notice is that that we are trying to, to bring to do in a written form the some principles that are inherent in this community.

53
00:08:03.810 --> 00:08:13.830
Phillip Roe: And that's something that something is has been captured by the i mean the the survey or the and also the

54
00:08:14.460 --> 00:08:32.580
Phillip Roe: Certain certain documents. And so at least you know those things we should try to collect it in a way that it has a certain order. And so, in, in order to really have the consensus that that says, What were we talking about but there's certain

55
00:08:33.900 --> 00:08:42.630
Phillip Roe: Things that we already have. So then that something that, as you were mentioning, Jason, that also. This is like a living document.

56
00:08:43.260 --> 00:08:56.010
Phillip Roe: But maybe we can concentrate it in just one topic because it's quite broad. You know, to have a baby huge document and also to have that all so baby by document by by certain

57
00:08:57.510 --> 00:09:04.110
Phillip Roe: Very important topics could be different documents for the different important topics. And that's a way to solve it because

58
00:09:04.770 --> 00:09:16.410
Phillip Roe: It's the we had to decide what which is which are the values that we are considering which are the principles and and those are the things and

59
00:09:16.950 --> 00:09:24.330
Phillip Roe: And of course, this is when you have like a kind of a source of knowledge, as for example the revelation of the

60
00:09:24.690 --> 00:09:38.820
Phillip Roe: The cat from the religions, you know, is the is the the prophet that gives you that revelation, and then you have to write that in the Bible. You have the Qur'an, you have the Bible from the US and you have the

61
00:09:40.380 --> 00:09:43.260
Phillip Roe: Traditional indigenous

62
00:09:44.730 --> 00:09:54.120
Phillip Roe: As a knowledge that then you ask talk with about that and you have that correlation. Then you put a deal together and all that. And then you have all that all that

63
00:09:54.630 --> 00:10:11.730
Phillip Roe: As a source of knowledge. But in terms of the science sciences, based on on the on and and try to understand what's going on in the universe and the nature and then to try to define certain principles and those principles like Nick come up with a

64
00:10:12.780 --> 00:10:19.560
Phillip Roe: Knowledge of science, but in Texas. This is a mix of business social scientific

65
00:10:20.610 --> 00:10:28.140
Phillip Roe: It makes us I'm principles, you see that also this spiritual principles that Iran. So at least you know that

66
00:10:29.910 --> 00:10:30.330
Phillip Roe: Then

67
00:10:31.890 --> 00:10:32.730
Phillip Roe: Probably that

68
00:10:34.980 --> 00:10:46.290
Phillip Roe: Another people really when they come in and yesterday and I saw two testimonies saying that this is some principles that are in the blocks that community that they value.

69
00:10:47.400 --> 00:11:07.080
Phillip Roe: And then, so then that those are the things that we have to capture. I know you have done in the lane has done a good way to capture that and Jason Hawes made that or let's let's see which other topics are quite a very important than we can try to work on it and

70
00:11:15.840 --> 00:11:16.110
Jenny Mith: Sorry.

71
00:11:16.140 --> 00:11:16.740
Jenny Mith: I think

72
00:11:16.860 --> 00:11:17.880
Phillip Roe: On that note, and

73
00:11:17.970 --> 00:11:30.870
Jenny Mith: So on the on the note of work streams it I guess like for if we're thinking about this from the point of view of a new governance working group member, it would be very clear to them. And I think maybe this is

74
00:11:31.650 --> 00:11:39.240
Jenny Mith: Like Juliet's concern as well. If you're a new member and you're looking at an issue for an upcoming meeting, you're, you're wondering what what is what the group is working on

75
00:11:39.570 --> 00:11:47.070
Jenny Mith: And what their progresses. So if there's a section that lays out the different work streams and it's very clear what you could be working on as a member of the

76
00:11:48.000 --> 00:11:56.160
Jenny Mith: Governance working group that could solve our issue of, like, you know what, what's going on. So if you're someone who cares about the explanation. Maybe that's so extreme that you'd like to plug into

77
00:11:56.640 --> 00:12:02.850
Jenny Mith: If you're someone who's interested in like helping the governance group operate. That's the work stream that you could plug into obviously you could be

78
00:12:04.140 --> 00:12:18.840
Jenny Mith: Will work streams, but perhaps as a way for us to sort of you know advertise the work that we're doing a little better. And so, yeah, I agree to fill up in and just making that clear to folks, although I do think we do that now.

79
00:12:19.890 --> 00:12:20.700
Jenny Mith: In a way. Oh.

80
00:12:24.420 --> 00:12:27.750
Jason Schrader: Sure. And I definitely want to say thank you fill up. I think what you're saying is

81
00:12:27.750 --> 00:12:36.090
Jason Schrader: Right on par Right like as we're starting to amass more information, more data more action items discussion items, all of this stuff. We're starting to see

82
00:12:36.480 --> 00:12:44.040
Jason Schrader: Different categories or tags are ways that we can organize the information. So thinking of it that way I can see

83
00:12:44.430 --> 00:12:50.850
Jason Schrader: Definitely you know keeping everything heavily linked, but to take advantage of ways to organize the information. Now that we have it.

84
00:12:51.330 --> 00:12:58.230
Jason Schrader: And I definitely have some ideas for that too. So I'm happy to take those and kind of either propose them an issue or sort of

85
00:12:58.680 --> 00:13:05.340
Jason Schrader: Actually I'll probably just open it in a PR so people can look at it and if we like it. We get enough people to agree on it, then we can merge it in, but

86
00:13:05.730 --> 00:13:17.220
Jason Schrader: More, more. So it sounds like we're all on the same page that as long as we have top of mind awareness and a decent amount of organization that the content itself can sort of move in in a new direction so

87
00:13:17.880 --> 00:13:31.020
Jason Schrader: I will, I will task myself with that one. And on that note, is there any other details related to this topic of like past meeting or agenda items or the way things move that anybody else would like to cover

88
00:13:32.400 --> 00:13:33.840
Jenny Mith: Actually, one thing I eclair

89
00:13:34.860 --> 00:13:35.550
Jenny Mith: By if we are

90
00:13:35.610 --> 00:13:40.950
Jenny Mith: I would like to have clarified by the group just based on the conversations we've had about

91
00:13:41.490 --> 00:13:54.450
Jenny Mith: About making these meetings and more geared toward working together. Are we going to adopt a format of there being no written updates every week on each of these work streams, but we don't necessarily talk about

92
00:13:54.750 --> 00:14:02.430
Jenny Mith: Every single one of those work streams during the meeting, like maybe each meeting has one or two main focuses or people are just hopping on to work.

93
00:14:03.060 --> 00:14:12.750
Jenny Mith: Collaboratively but we don't necessarily have to go through the whole agenda. Yeah. So I was. I wasn't sure what we decided on there as a question. Does that make sense to everyone.

94
00:14:19.770 --> 00:14:31.740
Harold Davis: Yeah, sounds good to me. The, the one or two, I don't know, issues that take priority for the meeting. And then some type of asynchronous writeups sounds like

95
00:14:32.580 --> 00:14:42.240
Harold Davis: It would be the most time efficient at least because I know just from a couple of those meetings where we, you know, walk through each topic and, you know,

96
00:14:42.270 --> 00:14:42.630
Jenny Mith: Took

97
00:14:42.720 --> 00:14:55.560
Harold Davis: The time to address the action item together during the meeting, it can be pretty time the, you know, make do rushed. So the asynchronous makes sense. But then also, it did, I did enjoy the

98
00:14:55.620 --> 00:14:57.990
Harold Davis: The top of the meetings where we did you know

99
00:14:58.200 --> 00:15:00.150
Harold Davis: Come together to to address action items.

100
00:15:02.640 --> 00:15:15.840
Jenny Mith: Okay, yeah, I think it's someone had suggested that we sort of alternate between the two formats as well. So if that's a possibility. But yeah, thank you. Harold for clarifying.

101
00:15:20.670 --> 00:15:22.980
Jenny Mith: Okay, so are there any other

102
00:15:24.000 --> 00:15:31.350
Jenny Mith: Thoughts on this agenda item about outstanding work and how we want to organize or can we move forward.

103
00:15:35.880 --> 00:15:36.660
Jenny Mith: Well, sounds great.

104
00:15:37.230 --> 00:15:40.830
Jenny Mith: Okay so we are going to

105
00:15:40.920 --> 00:15:57.540
Jenny Mith: dive right into this grant proposal Brittany. Actually, do you, would you like to give a quick update on where we are with grant.io. You don't have to give. Now if you are feared for it, but I helped me be some context could be helpful for the recap.

106
00:15:58.620 --> 00:16:02.400
brittany: Sure, yeah. So granted I O built out a

107
00:16:03.870 --> 00:16:17.430
brittany: A platform for us. So it's an open source platform. It allows you basically the application process to be a little easier. So like you would sign up for the platform you would submit an application.

108
00:16:18.930 --> 00:16:38.160
brittany: That application could then get comments from the community, from people on, you know, reviewing the application. You can get approved that way. So it basically helps just create a workflow for all of those steps. And then on the you know the foundation side, it allows us to kind of

109
00:16:39.180 --> 00:16:54.540
brittany: Move things into either, you know, approved or accepted or rejected or past so that tool is actually now built. So both myself and Ryan have just like DEMO accounts and we

110
00:16:55.110 --> 00:17:02.250
brittany: Our goal is to kind of just go through and tested, make sure that it's working on the admin side and then being able to

111
00:17:02.850 --> 00:17:14.340
brittany: Open it up to folks who are interested in maybe, you know, who are already active members of our community, but in applying for grant could actually be kind of testers and actually go through the process and fill out their application.

112
00:17:14.700 --> 00:17:18.660
brittany: So that would be a real application, but it just may take

113
00:17:20.070 --> 00:17:20.580
brittany: You know it.

114
00:17:21.960 --> 00:17:28.680
brittany: You know, there may be some bugs in the code. We just want to make sure that it moves as seamlessly as possible. And then the goal would be

115
00:17:29.520 --> 00:17:35.250
brittany: Probably by the end of August, we would actually announced the grants program and to the broader community.

116
00:17:35.850 --> 00:17:43.110
brittany: But we would want to start with having a few of the people who are already interested have already been thinking about doing work on this have their grants already

117
00:17:43.920 --> 00:17:53.340
brittany: Proposals already live in the system before that. So I think the governance working group would be, you know, great because talked about applying for a grant

118
00:17:53.790 --> 00:18:01.890
brittany: You could also help get feedback on the process. You know, is it confusing. Are there too many steps like you know did it, did it work. All right. And so that kind of

119
00:18:02.940 --> 00:18:15.270
brittany: Beta testing would be great. Just then we can have a more seamless experience and also we can start, you know, actually a proven grants and and getting those jump started, you know, by the end of August.

120
00:18:19.560 --> 00:18:22.140
brittany: So Dave, there's, I don't know if anyone has questions.

121
00:18:22.890 --> 00:18:25.110
brittany: I did see all the feedback on the GitHub.

122
00:18:25.170 --> 00:18:26.430
brittany: Post. If you haven't seen it yet.

123
00:18:26.850 --> 00:18:33.210
brittany: Have kind of the template that we would recommend for applications. So the types of questions that would need to be answered.

124
00:18:34.620 --> 00:18:37.950
brittany: In those applications. I think the only

125
00:18:38.250 --> 00:18:41.520
brittany: Or one of the missing pieces working on the background as well as just around

126
00:18:41.820 --> 00:18:44.580
brittany: What the contract looks like and what are the requirements.

127
00:18:45.210 --> 00:18:46.410
Jenny Mith: For actually paying out

128
00:18:46.500 --> 00:18:54.600
brittany: The money, since we will paying it out in US dollars to begin with, you know, like who's going to sign the contract if there's multiple

129
00:18:54.600 --> 00:18:55.980
brittany: People on an application.

130
00:18:56.280 --> 00:19:01.590
brittany: What is that contract entail just making it very clear, since there's no ambiguity around like

131
00:19:01.890 --> 00:19:06.480
brittany: You know, other tax implications or jurisdiction restrictions. Thanks.

132
00:19:11.610 --> 00:19:13.200
Jenny Mith: Well, thank you for the update for me.

133
00:19:13.560 --> 00:19:16.200
Jenny Mith: Any questions from anyone on grant.io

134
00:19:20.580 --> 00:19:21.780
Lane Rettig: And just curious about

135
00:19:21.990 --> 00:19:25.710
Lane Rettig: So, so, Brittany, thank you for introducing that that's really helpful background, um,

136
00:19:26.430 --> 00:19:33.840
Lane Rettig: You said it's an open source platform, which is great. I had asked this in the GitHub issue. So you may be presenting my question, but I'm

137
00:19:34.620 --> 00:19:41.880
Lane Rettig: Like what is like the review process itself. It sounds like that's kind of a back end admin thing. It sounds like that's probably not like

138
00:19:42.120 --> 00:19:51.270
Lane Rettig: Super open or transparent. But I'm wondering how much sort of transparency, there is that process. How much transparency, you know, we slash the foundation want to bring to that process and what that might look like.

139
00:19:53.400 --> 00:19:54.150
brittany: Yeah, I think.

140
00:19:54.240 --> 00:20:05.730
brittany: The goal would be to deliver all feedback to applicants in on their public application page. So you know if there's like missing or incomplete information being able to really relay that

141
00:20:07.410 --> 00:20:22.260
brittany: In this public manner. So on the back end. It's just more of a administrative tool so that like we can kind of change the status of people. So not everyone would have that authority like you would have to be an admin to be able to change status.

142
00:20:23.280 --> 00:20:28.170
brittany: But in terms of the commenting and feedback that could all happen through

143
00:20:29.550 --> 00:20:32.580
brittany: You know, in the public domain. And I think that that would be important.

144
00:20:33.510 --> 00:20:41.850
brittany: To, you know, state like either why, you know why there needs to be more information or what we see is missing or maybe needs to be re scope.

145
00:20:42.420 --> 00:20:52.950
brittany: Or more clarity on milestones, or if it's approved what what like that and tells as well. So yeah, I think, you know, trying to make it as transparent as possible and then

146
00:20:55.650 --> 00:21:00.450
brittany: Just using the tool as a way to kind of manage the workflow and stuff like a Google Sheet or so.

147
00:21:03.330 --> 00:21:03.750
brittany: And

148
00:21:03.810 --> 00:21:05.580
brittany: Maybe that answers your question every there's a missing.

149
00:21:05.610 --> 00:21:06.120
Jenny Mith: Component.

150
00:21:06.450 --> 00:21:07.410
brittany: That we should consider too.

151
00:21:08.400 --> 00:21:15.960
Jenny Mith: I think on a similar note, for me, there's some questions around the Grants Committee. Maybe I'm missing a previous update, but

152
00:21:16.380 --> 00:21:27.240
Jenny Mith: Who is not committee and whether there are opportunities for no. It says here issue that you we could open this up to the community for her.

153
00:21:28.110 --> 00:21:44.880
Jenny Mith: Back and approval. So I guess for like this first iteration. Is there an MVP version of the Grants Committee, but eventually it would evolve to include choices from the community or nominations for the for the community. The way that we've done with the SEC Foundation Board.

154
00:21:47.490 --> 00:21:50.640
brittany: Yeah. Yeah. And I think the nice thing is with

155
00:21:50.760 --> 00:22:00.180
brittany: The committee is I think it can be potentially Martin loosely structured initially the decision making will probably be

156
00:22:00.960 --> 00:22:10.350
brittany: You know as MVP just with the foundation so Jude myself and then Ryan who joined our team. So we will be looking through

157
00:22:10.740 --> 00:22:18.390
brittany: Now I think where the community can be a big help as being able if we're able to tap experts who maybe have

158
00:22:19.380 --> 00:22:27.000
brittany: A specific expertise around what the grant is asking for. So if someone is applying for, you know, the governance working group grant

159
00:22:27.360 --> 00:22:34.050
brittany: And, you know, if we didn't have as much knowledge we would tap into this group and be like, hey, can you guys common. Do you have any feedback or

160
00:22:34.680 --> 00:22:47.700
brittany: Questions for this particular applicant. So I think initially, it would be informal and then I think as as we test the process. I'm sure we will recognize that there's definitely

161
00:22:48.660 --> 00:22:59.880
brittany: Gaps in like our, our knowledge set. So we want to potentially either formally have a committee and then figure out, like what that decision making looks like is that ultimately the Foundation's decision.

162
00:23:01.080 --> 00:23:02.100
brittany: Like myself.

163
00:23:13.980 --> 00:23:18.750
brittany: I'm not sure if that's just me it more than two questions that probably Michelle.

164
00:23:20.520 --> 00:23:21.060
brittany: Thank goodness

165
00:23:22.470 --> 00:23:24.960
Jenny Mith: I can't. I was also but it's fine now.

166
00:23:25.590 --> 00:23:26.370
brittany: Sorry, yeah.

167
00:23:29.100 --> 00:23:34.650
brittany: Yeah. So yeah, I think the goal would be to make sure that we can

168
00:23:35.880 --> 00:23:43.080
brittany: Deliver on the process. First, with just the, the very small group and then be able to improve it over time and kind of answer some of those questions of

169
00:23:43.680 --> 00:23:58.860
brittany: How does the committee, look what authority do they have. How big is it, how do people get on that committee on and I think it's definitely separate though from something like the board, which is more of a formal legal constraint which we need

170
00:24:00.450 --> 00:24:04.920
brittany: You know we have a lot of governance already set up for it. But this would need its own governance.

171
00:24:07.980 --> 00:24:09.120
Phillip Roe: Now my main

172
00:24:09.390 --> 00:24:10.680
Phillip Roe: Concern is

173
00:24:11.490 --> 00:24:21.030
Phillip Roe: How this principles of ecosystems will be applied. So then probably that will be something that we have to put away of

174
00:24:22.560 --> 00:24:34.920
Phillip Roe: Kind of evaluation of how that adds to or encourages the ecosystem to be formed. And as we have learned is not only the technical aspects that

175
00:24:35.370 --> 00:24:43.860
Phillip Roe: We're talking about it, but also the how that we will create them a base of for the ecosystem and

176
00:24:44.520 --> 00:24:52.980
Phillip Roe: So that's something that is very important and sudden then the people that have to participate in the vibration has to have this vision of the Act.

177
00:24:53.670 --> 00:25:05.220
Phillip Roe: Of what we are trying to do is the governance and why do we want to capture that that those values and principles that that one we want that to be in editing in the

178
00:25:05.880 --> 00:25:16.170
Phillip Roe: In the circus blocks tactics ecosystems of sex ecosystem. So that's something that we had to see how we evolve in that

179
00:25:16.770 --> 00:25:29.010
Phillip Roe: Because people that are probably very technical, you know, it will, and maybe they they have some, some, they don't think about you know each other, they don't

180
00:25:29.880 --> 00:25:46.020
Phillip Roe: know much about you know the the principles are based in blocks tech community. So those are, it's quite challenging. You know, and so probably your MVP approach is not not bad, but it had maybe has a bit bit broader than that those members.

181
00:25:47.040 --> 00:25:48.210
Ryan Arndt: I think what could be helpful.

182
00:25:49.350 --> 00:26:01.260
Ryan Arndt: I could start, I'd be happy to do this, I'm start used to be a teacher. And I've done a lot of assessments like taking those ecosystem values and creating a rubric that could be used across projects.

183
00:26:02.190 --> 00:26:06.990
Ryan Arndt: And that'd be something that would be valuable in assessing any of the grant proposals, I think.

184
00:26:08.790 --> 00:26:14.550
Jenny Mith: Yeah, I think that's a good idea. And that I, my sense is that that kind of

185
00:26:14.790 --> 00:26:19.110
Jenny Mith: Document will probably grow and evolve over time, the more that we learn about

186
00:26:19.350 --> 00:26:28.410
Jenny Mith: Our ecosystem. And actually, not to get too off topic here, but I do think it's related Dan and I were talking about just

187
00:26:29.490 --> 00:26:35.040
Jenny Mith: These early stages of decision making and it's you know it's wonderful that we have the chef's validation here to take the lead and we have

188
00:26:35.700 --> 00:26:48.330
Jenny Mith: Ourselves this governance working group to take lead on a lot of these decisions, but the reality is that, you know, we have a community of thousands of people and it's it's difficult to know like exactly what everybody wants and at the stages.

189
00:26:49.140 --> 00:26:57.000
Jenny Mith: There's an MVP version of governance that were operating off of. So I think that the term that we coined the phrase that we weren't as

190
00:26:57.900 --> 00:27:10.020
Jenny Mith: Minimum valuable governance or MTG and setting sort of milestones for ourselves in in the evolution of governance is important. Right. So whatever

191
00:27:10.830 --> 00:27:16.530
Jenny Mith: The governance working group decides to tackle between now and the end of the year in this little

192
00:27:17.490 --> 00:27:27.300
Jenny Mith: Will will be a reflection of like the the MVP version of governance that we have now, but the more decisions we make in the more people we have on board and the more sophisticated that

193
00:27:27.990 --> 00:27:38.280
Jenny Mith: That our governance model old should should be. And so, you know, we should probably set goals like by the end of the year, we should have a Grants Committee.

194
00:27:38.850 --> 00:27:47.460
Jenny Mith: In place that is representative of the different entity ecosystem. So, you know, right now we're making some decisions informally.

195
00:27:47.880 --> 00:27:56.160
Jenny Mith: And we're doing our best to get feedback from the community, but it's definitely the case that we're not capturing what everybody wants because that's kind of impossible.

196
00:27:56.580 --> 00:28:06.900
Jenny Mith: And. But yeah, I think it's important that we capture that in the in the grant proposal as well, just like the planting the seeds of governance and

197
00:28:07.770 --> 00:28:17.730
Jenny Mith: Also planning for like the long, long term or the longevity of governance, so that it can mature with the ecosystem. So like something like Ryan suggestion about the stock.

198
00:28:18.300 --> 00:28:29.190
Jenny Mith: collating all those values is is important for evaluating projects, but that will definitely change, the more that we learn about our ecosystem. And the more that different entities grow in the ecosystem as well.

199
00:28:37.140 --> 00:28:37.650
Jenny Mith: Any other

200
00:28:39.210 --> 00:28:44.220
Jenny Mith: Questions there on on just like the purpose of of this grand

201
00:28:46.440 --> 00:28:47.820
Jenny Mith: For this proposal.

202
00:28:51.690 --> 00:29:02.190
Jenny Mith: Okay, great. Thank you everybody for for those comments, so thank you. Brittany for that update just like a very quick summary based on the discussion we had during the retro

203
00:29:03.510 --> 00:29:12.180
Jenny Mith: And one of the, it seems like one of the challenges that we were encountering as a governance working group was basically you know where to

204
00:29:12.780 --> 00:29:17.430
Jenny Mith: invest our time efforts, we all have slightly different interests in

205
00:29:18.270 --> 00:29:24.030
Jenny Mith: Governance for the SEC ecosystem and but ultimately our main goal is to serve the community.

206
00:29:24.330 --> 00:29:37.950
Jenny Mith: And that involves you're solving the most pressing issues that are blocking community members from, you know, achieving our ecosystem wide goal of building a user owned internet. And so I started a doc. I'm going to share this here.

207
00:29:38.610 --> 00:29:48.300
Jenny Mith: Of potential goals and work streams that we as the governance working group could tackle in the next three to six months or so, one of the reasons for doing this is

208
00:29:49.290 --> 00:29:57.690
Jenny Mith: Number one to be public and transparent about the work that we're doing with the wider community right we've we've had this core group of people who've been

209
00:29:58.140 --> 00:30:04.110
Jenny Mith: In governance for the last few months, which has been great. And we've been able to give you some visibility into the work that we're doing.

210
00:30:04.800 --> 00:30:11.970
Jenny Mith: By applying for a grant with this proposal, this is that's like the ultimate way of showing the community.

211
00:30:12.480 --> 00:30:22.470
Jenny Mith: A. These are the things that we're working on now. And this is what we want to get both, you know, financial and social support on. Do you have any feedback. Are there any issues that are more pressing that we're not tackling

212
00:30:23.340 --> 00:30:30.090
Jenny Mith: But this grant proposal would also take into account things that we as community members know has been an issue for a long time, things like

213
00:30:30.480 --> 00:30:37.650
Jenny Mith: Right, like robotics and. And yeah, I see Dan's point here about developing a proposal for how this group would evolve to

214
00:30:37.920 --> 00:30:44.520
Jenny Mith: Allow wider community participation. That's a huge issue, right, like we don't. It's still unclear what the stacks community.

215
00:30:44.790 --> 00:30:49.620
Jenny Mith: has authority over in terms of decision making. So that's potential work stream that we could

216
00:30:49.860 --> 00:30:57.300
Jenny Mith: Tackle and I've seen at my name come up in discussions, a lot. So maybe we as the governance working group wouldn't be responsible for developing

217
00:30:57.600 --> 00:31:06.480
Jenny Mith: The full blown out mining proposal, but we would be responsible for maybe starting a subcommittee that that's focused on researching and developing an app mining draft so

218
00:31:07.260 --> 00:31:19.980
Jenny Mith: You know, this is this is a way to serve the community and address its most pressing needs in the next three to six months and also build credibility for the governance working group as a group that is truly reflective of the Community's

219
00:31:20.820 --> 00:31:31.710
Jenny Mith: Interest and the Community's projects and needs. So if you haven't gotten a chance to go into that Doc, please go in there, it's you know, it's totally out of brainstorming sort of things now.

220
00:31:32.130 --> 00:31:43.590
Jenny Mith: I'm not sure how we want to tackle like voting on the work streams that we want to include in this proposal I based on what I know about this group. I feel like we're going to be pretty ambitious with what we want to achieve, but i think that's that's the good thing.

221
00:31:47.250 --> 00:31:52.950
Jenny Mith: Is everyone clear on on why we want to submit this proposal and and what the purpose of it is

222
00:32:02.880 --> 00:32:19.830
Harold Davis: Seems pretty clear. I'm excited to get things off the ground that the Community's been excited about the different France collections being in addition to this thing that you mentioned. So it'd be interesting to see how how this can help help these these different France.

223
00:32:23.850 --> 00:32:24.210
Lane Rettig: Jenny.

224
00:32:25.170 --> 00:32:27.870
Lane Rettig: Question, is this something that you see.

225
00:32:28.170 --> 00:32:35.460
Lane Rettig: Turning into a single individual grant proposal on behalf of the governance working group or do you think it's something that

226
00:32:35.970 --> 00:32:43.680
Lane Rettig: Hypothetically, some subset of people, you know, can take one or two of these things and they're especially excited about and it could kind of turn into like multiple proposals just just curious.

227
00:32:44.610 --> 00:32:45.720
Jenny Mith: Yeah, I think, um,

228
00:32:46.470 --> 00:32:53.940
Jenny Mith: I think it's I think it's a little bit of both. This question has been asked and it's gonna be. It's been like tricky to wrap my head around because

229
00:32:54.990 --> 00:33:05.220
Jenny Mith: Again, like this core group of people has been consistently working on the governance working group issues in general. But I think it's very clear that some of us have

230
00:33:06.990 --> 00:33:14.070
Jenny Mith: Different interests. So we're working on this together, but some of us have like different backgrounds expertise. They are things that we could do.

231
00:33:14.850 --> 00:33:22.650
Jenny Mith: There are things that I can work on and do a better job than than others. And so why I don't know what everyone else thinks like I was thinking that maybe

232
00:33:23.070 --> 00:33:28.140
Jenny Mith: This group would be taking the lead on writing the proposal and sort of laying out all these work streams, but

233
00:33:29.010 --> 00:33:35.880
Jenny Mith: Once this grant proposal is accepted, it should be inviting to other community members to plug in, where

234
00:33:36.420 --> 00:33:52.410
Jenny Mith: They think they can fit in to get in, where they fit in. Right. So we if one of the work streams that we as a governance group are committing to starting is at mining maybe someone like Dan who or two yet who has been experienced with

235
00:33:53.430 --> 00:34:03.570
Jenny Mith: At mine before would volunteer to take the lead on just starting a subcommittee focused on developing and outlining proposal and, you know, we would then set a date for themselves and then would have

236
00:34:04.320 --> 00:34:17.100
Jenny Mith: You know updates that they would share asynchronously with us throughout the governance working groups time. But yeah, I imagine this is proposal giving this group like the ability to plant seeds.

237
00:34:18.420 --> 00:34:27.000
Jenny Mith: For community projects and those projects sort of spitting out into other smaller groups, like you mentioned lane with people who are passionate about, like, very singular focuses

238
00:34:34.860 --> 00:34:36.930
Juliet Oberding: So Jenny, are we going to have

239
00:34:37.050 --> 00:34:51.690
Juliet Oberding: A one specific is this one grant covering all these workflows. Is that how you envision this because I'm having a little bit of difficulty understanding how this is going to work or

240
00:34:52.260 --> 00:34:55.290
Juliet Oberding: Individual grants for each of these stream.

241
00:34:55.770 --> 00:34:57.420
Juliet Oberding: Work strings, can you

242
00:34:57.600 --> 00:34:58.530
Juliet Oberding: Explain a little more

243
00:34:59.310 --> 00:35:01.110
Jenny Mith: Yeah I would sort of post that to the

244
00:35:01.680 --> 00:35:11.220
Jenny Mith: Group to decide what would be best. I always thought that I didn't think that we would tackle all of these extremes in this one purple. So I figured it would be a matter of prioritization so

245
00:35:11.220 --> 00:35:15.360
Jenny Mith: Figuring out amongst ourselves. Which of these are the most pressing

246
00:35:16.620 --> 00:35:26.910
Jenny Mith: And we could do that more methodically as well. Right, so we could serve a community members so we could you know we could pick our top five and say, like, hey, these, these are issues we've seen

247
00:35:28.170 --> 00:35:33.630
Jenny Mith: Blocking community members from doing the work that they want to do and we would like to help tackle these

248
00:35:33.900 --> 00:35:40.350
Jenny Mith: In the next three to six months, you know, what is, what are your, what are your top issues, you know, what would you like the governance working group to take the lead on

249
00:35:40.860 --> 00:35:59.160
Jenny Mith: And so that's that's where my thinking was with that. And as far as what we commit to I think that that is also for the group to to decide, so I was like I was modeling this after the proposal that I'd seen for for cosmos and they I think their deliverables were a lot less

250
00:36:00.180 --> 00:36:05.700
Jenny Mith: There are a lot more basic right there. Their deliverables were like in the next three months. We're going to start a blog series.

251
00:36:06.300 --> 00:36:19.650
Jenny Mith: We're going to establish like updates. So we're going to have these working calls and we want funding from the community to support us and doing that. Whereas, you know, for us, we're taking that model, but we're addressing very pressing issues within the Community.

252
00:36:23.430 --> 00:36:25.320
Jenny Mith: That makes sense. We have. Does that clarify things a little more

253
00:36:27.240 --> 00:36:33.570
Juliet Oberding: Yes, it does. Clarify. And I remember looking at the cosmos proposal and

254
00:36:33.660 --> 00:36:35.160
Juliet Oberding: Also being happy that we'd

255
00:36:35.460 --> 00:36:38.430
Juliet Oberding: Probably a cut. We definitely accomplished. Most of the stuff

256
00:36:38.490 --> 00:36:39.900
Juliet Oberding: That they had set out in their

257
00:36:39.900 --> 00:36:40.560
Juliet Oberding: Proposal.

258
00:36:40.770 --> 00:36:43.230
Jenny Mith: So this is, yeah, without finding. Yeah.

259
00:36:45.060 --> 00:36:45.810
Juliet Oberding: Thank you.

260
00:36:47.730 --> 00:36:48.960
Jenny Mith: No problem, and

261
00:36:49.470 --> 00:36:50.220
Just a quick point

262
00:36:52.890 --> 00:37:00.510
Jenny Mith: Yeah, so just this this final point and this grant, we would be asking for funding. I don't necessarily

263
00:37:01.230 --> 00:37:13.140
Jenny Mith: Know what the funding would be for again like that's up to the group to decide right I would assume that, you know, if we were to apply for a small granted like thousand dollars or so some of that money would

264
00:37:13.440 --> 00:37:19.170
Jenny Mith: go toward a bounty that we would want to oversee for forensics by or I think it's

265
00:37:19.650 --> 00:37:28.140
Jenny Mith: Perfectly reasonable to want to use some of that money to fund meetings where we're having my coffee with each other. I know Juliet office and I totally agree. If we're working together.

266
00:37:28.770 --> 00:37:42.420
Jenny Mith: And spending so many hours on this. It's nice to have virtual meets where everyone has coffee or donuts and it's a good way to connect with the community so that funding to go toward that as well but bounties meetings. Anything else that we want to

267
00:37:43.470 --> 00:37:44.670
Jenny Mith: Support, I think.

268
00:37:44.730 --> 00:37:45.960
Phillip Roe: That's what the grant would take

269
00:37:50.550 --> 00:38:04.350
Phillip Roe: Can I see some that is of course the meaning of this, they have to be executed early so because those are, you know, all we all need that those

270
00:38:05.880 --> 00:38:07.050
Phillip Roe: Those lines of work.

271
00:38:08.220 --> 00:38:21.930
Phillip Roe: So broadly something that will be general that we can we can be general and then the other ones that more specific, like in terms of development and and also some in relation with research and and and

272
00:38:22.950 --> 00:38:27.480
Phillip Roe: And development, you could be something that's all the work we're also as

273
00:38:28.650 --> 00:38:30.510
Phillip Roe: Danny mentioned

274
00:38:32.280 --> 00:38:34.230
Phillip Roe: But essentially, both

275
00:38:35.400 --> 00:38:48.660
Phillip Roe: All of them, you know, we'll have to see a way that we can advance it and so I don't see you one of those could be left hand or left behind.

276
00:38:52.680 --> 00:38:53.700
Jenny Mith: You think audio.

277
00:38:54.780 --> 00:38:55.290
A little bit.

278
00:39:00.510 --> 00:39:02.250
Dan Trevino: Can I say something, you know, hear me.

279
00:39:04.260 --> 00:39:07.200
Dan Trevino: Yeah, I was just gonna say I was asking just to

280
00:39:07.380 --> 00:39:08.580
Make sure I understood

281
00:39:09.990 --> 00:39:19.980
Dan Trevino: The, the list that we're looking at now from Jenny in the in the document is just a starting point for potential areas that we can focus on with this grant proposal, right.

282
00:39:20.340 --> 00:39:28.770
Dan Trevino: So the grant proposal is is a small thing to kind of just start building that muscle start understanding the process or working through kinks.

283
00:39:29.460 --> 00:39:36.720
Dan Trevino: It wouldn't. It's not necessarily a something that's going to, we're not planning to fix everything in this one shot.

284
00:39:37.680 --> 00:39:48.870
Dan Trevino: So my understanding is we're going to like pick one thing to focus on out of this list, find something or two or three things to focus on on this list. Put a grant proposal together to focus on those

285
00:39:49.470 --> 00:39:53.670
Dan Trevino: These other items that may not make that initial cut would be things that we could stick on our

286
00:39:55.080 --> 00:40:01.920
Dan Trevino: Backlog and and you know, potentially work through later that how I understand you can

287
00:40:02.520 --> 00:40:11.550
Jenny Mith: Yeah, like areas of future research like the like the white papers. I think I guess. Um, one thing I should add

288
00:40:11.550 --> 00:40:17.790
Jenny Mith: Is the way that you've often structured your questions, not about your questions is, is really helpful. And so

289
00:40:18.060 --> 00:40:24.930
Jenny Mith: You know when when we put when we throw something like radical on there, it's very obvious to us why that's important, but thinking along the lines of

290
00:40:25.380 --> 00:40:33.090
Jenny Mith: You know why that's important for the community and framing it in a in a government sort of way. Right. So why do we want to tackle roddick's well because it's blocking so many community members on

291
00:40:33.540 --> 00:40:42.630
Jenny Mith: On building this and if they can't build this then they can't continue to contribute to our mission of building user own internet and so on and so forth. So just thinking about

292
00:40:43.320 --> 00:40:46.170
Jenny Mith: These work streams as things that contribute to

293
00:40:46.830 --> 00:40:57.060
Jenny Mith: Just community participation or you augment community participation, if we're if they're blocking community members. I feel like that is that's a governance issue right like naturally. That's something that

294
00:40:57.600 --> 00:41:07.080
Jenny Mith: This group would want to tackle and and we would have to articulate that in the proposal, which can be the hard part, but will also be, you know, really good exercise for us as well.

295
00:41:27.840 --> 00:41:29.220
Jenny Mith: Thanks, everyone. It's

296
00:41:30.720 --> 00:41:39.870
Jenny Mith: Got real receptive, this is really exciting and. Okay, so I've shared this doc with these potential deliverables. Now I'm just sort of wondering

297
00:41:40.230 --> 00:41:53.790
Jenny Mith: What, how we want to move forward. I can see an action item just being everybody contributing more ideas to these work streams. Eventually, you know, voting on our top ideas and then

298
00:41:54.780 --> 00:42:13.710
Jenny Mith: I kind of this was ambitious but I threw in here that we can start an outline for the grant. I think that's probably an action item for later, given that in Brittany shared the the grant guidelines recently, but how. Okay. So after we all share our ideas or brainstorm my our ideas for

299
00:42:15.150 --> 00:42:22.080
Jenny Mith: Grant commitments or potential work streams and how would we want to go about prioritizing them and do we want to

300
00:42:22.620 --> 00:42:32.430
Jenny Mith: Go with a methodical route that we discussed with like survey and community members to make sure that the these work streams be their most pressing

301
00:42:33.360 --> 00:42:42.990
Jenny Mith: work streams or do you want to sort of just decide for ourselves and put the grant out there, right, the grants first and ask for feedback. I think that there were a couple of ways we could go about this.

302
00:42:48.450 --> 00:42:49.890
Jenny Mith: What's the, what's the timeline.

303
00:42:52.410 --> 00:42:54.600
Dan Trevino: Hurt end of August for starting to

304
00:42:55.770 --> 00:42:59.430
Dan Trevino: Test the process is that great. So we really only have a couple of weeks.

305
00:43:00.990 --> 00:43:01.470
Jenny Mith: Yeah.

306
00:43:02.910 --> 00:43:11.190
Jenny Mith: Yeah, you know, as usual, as soon as possible is always best. I think so. Brittany mentioned that, and we would be announcing

307
00:43:12.330 --> 00:43:20.610
Jenny Mith: A GRANT file platform at the end of August. I mean, number one, I think it's important that we take our time with something as important as this, but

308
00:43:21.510 --> 00:43:31.680
Jenny Mith: You know, number two you, I think that we could probably develop this in the next two, two weeks, two to three weeks. I'm happy to take the lead on unlike writing the grant.

309
00:43:33.990 --> 00:43:49.440
Jenny Mith: was time consuming thing. But I think what is important. Before we even start writing it, it's just getting those ideas down and getting some sort of signal from community members that what we think are pressing issues are actually pressing issues for the community.

310
00:43:55.560 --> 00:43:58.470
Jenny Mith: There's two to three weeks sound reasonable for everyone.

311
00:44:01.110 --> 00:44:05.730
Phillip Roe: For the Kickstarter the Kickstarter. I think this is possible.

312
00:44:07.200 --> 00:44:09.630
Phillip Roe: To decide which are the topics that we want to

313
00:44:11.010 --> 00:44:13.350
Phillip Roe: Encourage you to prioritize

314
00:44:14.820 --> 00:44:18.630
Phillip Roe: This, it can be done, I think, of course, we have to work with.

315
00:44:21.060 --> 00:44:22.170
Jenny Mith: You and I can split half

316
00:44:24.030 --> 00:44:39.270
Jenny Mith: Joking, okay. So, Brittany, just to clarify, if we were to write a draft when next couple of weeks, we would then be able to. So we would be able to submit a draft to grant.io for feedback from the community by August 27 was that the date that you'd mentioned

317
00:44:41.340 --> 00:44:44.610
brittany: Yeah, so that on that week is when we would announce it so

318
00:44:45.870 --> 00:44:53.820
brittany: Even possibly you know if things work out like it would be able to be posted before sort of that announcement launch date.

319
00:44:54.360 --> 00:45:00.060
brittany: And then we could just circulated internally try out the tool and people could get feedback. But yeah, if you could

320
00:45:00.840 --> 00:45:13.050
brittany: The week of the 27th, if the application is all done. I think that'd be great because we plan to announce it with more press and maybe there'll be more eyeballs more feedback and everything on it.

321
00:45:14.100 --> 00:45:15.210
brittany: By then, as well, to good point.

322
00:45:16.350 --> 00:45:19.230
Jenny Mith: Okay, okay. So August 27 is our deadline.

323
00:45:21.420 --> 00:45:22.260
Jenny Mith: For that week.

324
00:45:23.730 --> 00:45:24.450
Jenny Mith: That's good to know.

325
00:45:26.820 --> 00:45:28.440
Jenny Mith: Like when I was writing my dissertation.

326
00:45:29.970 --> 00:45:33.630
Jenny Mith: Although I wrote that in three days, not two weeks. So this is that

327
00:45:34.470 --> 00:45:38.820
Phillip Roe: We have to do that because it is time is running out. So

328
00:45:41.970 --> 00:45:43.980
Phillip Roe: You won't be perfect, but we had to do it.

329
00:45:46.830 --> 00:45:58.380
Jenny Mith: All right, great. Okay. So as an action item, and do we all, we all agree that an action item that makes sense is for everyone to hop into that gov grant proposal Doc I shared in to share

330
00:45:59.220 --> 00:46:07.530
Jenny Mith: Ideas for work streams. That's a, that's the reason why an action item and then, were there any opinions on whether we should

331
00:46:09.720 --> 00:46:13.200
Jenny Mith: Share these ideas with the community and ask them what their

332
00:46:13.260 --> 00:46:20.820
Jenny Mith: top priorities are or should we decide amongst ourselves. Write the proposal and have the community give feedback at that stage.

333
00:46:23.310 --> 00:46:31.050
Jenny Mith: The former will obviously hold us up a little bit. The, the ladder risk runs the risk of us getting it completely wrong.

334
00:46:33.090 --> 00:46:37.410
Phillip Roe: Like to ask lane. If you remember something from the survey that

335
00:46:38.040 --> 00:46:41.160
Phillip Roe: It gives us some feedback on that on this.

336
00:46:43.230 --> 00:46:46.320
Phillip Roe: At least you know principles. If you easily

337
00:46:47.550 --> 00:46:53.220
Phillip Roe: Because that's something that we can say that it's come from the survey. And if it's not

338
00:46:57.930 --> 00:47:10.470
Phillip Roe: Because we cannot be all the time, you know, doing feedback and asking for feedback in and but we have to do something that will be in action, and then have the feedback but

339
00:47:11.790 --> 00:47:13.890
Phillip Roe: It's because it's too much analysis.

340
00:47:15.180 --> 00:47:22.320
Phillip Roe: And then we don't advance you know and that's my main thing. But in terms of the server can help us on that this

341
00:47:25.590 --> 00:47:26.580
Lane Rettig: Week here my

342
00:47:26.790 --> 00:47:33.540
Lane Rettig: Two cents on this would be honest that phrase asked for forgiveness, not permission.

343
00:47:37.530 --> 00:47:40.560
Jenny Mith: Great. So it sounds like we are leaning toward the latter.

344
00:47:41.520 --> 00:47:54.360
Dan Trevino: Again, this is a maybe I'm misunderstanding, but I want to make sure I do understand this is again more for testing out the process. And while we want to accomplish something that's not the primary

345
00:47:55.380 --> 00:48:02.190
Dan Trevino: Goal here. So I think picking a couple of things and moving forward is, in my opinion, fine.

346
00:48:03.390 --> 00:48:13.110
Dan Trevino: Because we know we're not going to get to everything. And we everything on this list, we know the list will grow and we want to kind of work through the process.

347
00:48:13.320 --> 00:48:14.700
Dan Trevino: First primarily right

348
00:48:15.630 --> 00:48:15.840
Yeah.

349
00:48:17.010 --> 00:48:19.020
Jenny Mith: Yeah, I think that's a good point and

350
00:48:19.410 --> 00:48:23.460
Jenny Mith: You know, we can be strategic and picking the things that we think we could really

351
00:48:23.610 --> 00:48:31.830
Jenny Mith: We can really knock out of the park right because part of this is is building credibility for this process and is building credibility for the governance working group amongst community members if

352
00:48:32.190 --> 00:48:47.010
Jenny Mith: If the governance working group is meant to be representative of this wider community of thousands of people. I think it's, it's important to demonstrate that we can deliver so that's that's a good point. Dan, just like picking the things that we think and we can tackle best so

353
00:48:48.090 --> 00:48:48.510
Jenny Mith: Okay.

354
00:48:50.010 --> 00:48:58.530
Lane Rettig: Yeah, I'm here, I'm not. Yeah, I just wanted to yeah what Dan said just now, I think the people in this group have enough of a handle on

355
00:48:58.980 --> 00:49:02.670
Lane Rettig: What's going on throughout the ecosystem that if you know if the task at hand is like

356
00:49:03.000 --> 00:49:12.360
Lane Rettig: Pick two things, you know, that are realistic grant applications that will add value to the community. Like, I think that we should have no trouble doing that. And as the list grows. Of course we want there to be more

357
00:49:13.050 --> 00:49:19.470
Lane Rettig: touch points and more ways for community members to come in and make other proposals, but as far as bootstrapping the process a high degree of confidence and that's

358
00:49:20.730 --> 00:49:21.210
Jenny Mith: Totally

359
00:49:21.390 --> 00:49:30.570
Jenny Mith: Yes, that's great and all right. Okay, so we've got our action items established. We're ready. We have a deadline.

360
00:49:31.950 --> 00:49:38.610
Jenny Mith: In place and we're all really excited to start this process. So is there anything I'm missing beyond those things.

361
00:49:44.100 --> 00:49:48.240
Jenny Mith: Awesome. Okay. Thanks everybody. This was great.

362
00:49:49.980 --> 00:49:53.610
Phillip Roe: Well, nice seeing you again in the in this working group. I got lost.

363
00:49:54.960 --> 00:49:57.900
Phillip Roe: Some weeks ago and sorry about that, but

364
00:49:58.920 --> 00:50:00.000
Phillip Roe: I'm glad I'm back.

365
00:50:04.320 --> 00:50:04.680
Jenny Mith: To you.

366
00:50:05.850 --> 00:50:15.000
Jenny Mith: As well. And I guess. So we will reconvene and check out this list of ideas. Next Thursday, same time

367
00:50:18.120 --> 00:50:18.930
Jenny Mith: See you all later.

368
00:50:20.640 --> 00:50:21.240
Jason Schrader: Everybody

