# 20200701 Governance Working Group Call 19

Jason Schrader: Okay, recording is live, and we are ready to go.
Brittany Laughlin: So today is July 1 and today's working group call number 19 and we'll start off with the weekly updates. So if folks want to chime in with sort of the things that they've been working on over the past
Brittany Laughlin: The past week.
Jason Schrader: I can do a quick standard. So for my stuff. I've been working through the repo little bit and I'm happy to say I got the GitHub Pages turned on. So we've got a little bit going on there, both with
Jason Schrader: GitHub pages and we're using a plugin called docs apply to take all the content. We have and spit it back out.
Jason Schrader: In a really pretty little format, so I will drop a link here for that.
Jason Schrader: And otherwise just going to keep heading down our agenda would love to close out as many action items as possible. So some of that I'm hoping to do today, and if not today. We can do throughout the week. And that's it for me.
Brittany Laughlin: Few more folks have joined. So, we're just doing stand ups. Okay.
Phillip Roe: Good morning. Nice to see you. Good. Well,
Jenny Mith: I can go, I'll give a quick one just stepped away and I made I incorporated edits to the blog that we worked on.
Jenny Mith: Last week, so I would say that it's pretty much ready to go for publication Brittany I just wasn't sure how we wanted to do this on the
Jenny Mith: Sex or website. So maybe that's something that we can just quickly decide on toward the end of the meeting also made some progress on Community moderation in discord.
Jenny Mith: With the bot that we discussed last week and looking forward to sharing progress on that.
Jenny Mith: And not much to share. Now, other than the bot is being worked on. But I think that we will be able to test that out with a small group. Pretty soon in the next couple of weeks or so. So that's what I've been working on.
Jenny Mith: Things, Jenny.
Brittany Laughlin: Other stand up.
Jude Nelson: I first time in this group.
Jude Nelson: But I just commented on issue number one.
Jude Nelson: On the repo. I have a draft of 6000 based on that Google Doc that we all shared
Jude Nelson: Also have a slide deck that goes with it. It kind of gives like the high level to the the TL Dr. I'm happy to host as well.
Okay, thank you.
Phillip Roe: Yes, we
Phillip Roe: Can
Phillip Roe: Lack of time to do what we want to do but studying
Phillip Roe: Day by day, the governance issue is
Phillip Roe: Getting more important. So I'm a bit
Phillip Roe: paranoid about it. And so I don't know. We have to keep on doing and advancing whatever we want. We can hard
Phillip Roe: So,
Phillip Roe: I'm a bit worried about that but studying but not sufficiently
Phillip Roe: What we are doing what I'm doing.
Brittany Laughlin: Yeah, yeah. There's a lot to get done as he could see me. They could have agendas that I think, yeah, there's a lot of progress. But yeah, always more things coming up and any other stand up.
Brittany Laughlin: Great. So I'm, I'm happy to let me see if I can. Well, I'll try and share my screen so everyone can see the GitHub, that we are looking at
Brittany Laughlin: Get that set up anytime
Brittany Laughlin: Just my quick update on the foundation. And so we did host our board meeting, so I'll be sharing minutes on, you know, publishing those what happened.
Brittany Laughlin: In the board meeting.
G. M.: We're still waiting on
Brittany Laughlin: Some of the bylaw feedback from our legal team. So, you know, we, I appreciate all the feedback on the GitHub issue about
Brittany Laughlin: The bylaws, and I've actually, you know, share those with our legal team to get their input on how we could like resolve some of those issues by changing some of the language. So once I have a working draft of that I will share that with this group here and also in the GitHub.
Brittany Laughlin: Okay, let's
Brittany Laughlin: screen share. So the next part of the agenda is around action items. And so we have a number of action items. And what's it out here, I can go through them one by one. Let me see if I can actually the shirt.
Brittany Laughlin: Oh. Okay. Thanks.
Brittany Laughlin: Much faster. Yeah, so the extra night of these
Brittany Laughlin: Excuses
Brittany Laughlin: Of the year I'll talk about just like the sag foundation. So this call for board nominations for nominations are still open. The process has not been
Brittany Laughlin: formalized yet of how to sort of accept those nominations that so that's something to work on this week. Now that you know in the board game last week, sort of talking about potentially adding new board members in the board was on board for that.
Brittany Laughlin: The sex, violence, I kind of give the update there and you know I think once we have a a better draft, including how the feedback. Then we'll be able to
Brittany Laughlin: present this to the community for feedback and then present them to the board to be voted in and see meeting roles, responsibilities and bounties and I think Jason you've been working on this, but if others have been collaborating and when I give an update there.
Jason Schrader: Yeah. So what I'll do is I'll pull that up real quick and some sharing the screen here. And I think we're pretty much all in agreement that we that we like this structure that we were thinking about it. Basically sets up a moderator role.
Jason Schrader: Who will kind of steward, the entire call you have a secretary role that has to do with the notes and updating. Some of the GitHub resources afterward.
Jason Schrader: And then the updates somebody to do the updates and that was something that actually Juliet had
Jason Schrader: Offered to do as well. So we want to be able to publish an easy to read or easy to digest version of everything that we were we were doing it regularly in our, in our little updates repo, but it fell off.
Jason Schrader: And we just want to see what the best flow to get an easy result without requiring too much work would be and then looking at the two roles of
Jason Schrader: Secretary and whoever would do the updates is something that we would like to look at as a potential bounty candidate.
Jason Schrader: In the future I think it'd be fun to give people a little incentive to spend the time to do it consistently and come out the same every time, but
Jason Schrader: To actually making any decisions around this. I think we're pretty close to just putting it in place for now. And there is a placeholder in each issue.
Jason Schrader: Or I'm sorry. Each agenda issue that shows just who the moderator who the Secretary would be each week and we could also
Jason Schrader: Name the updates person for something like that but just want to see the best way to get this to start going and then once we've got a regular process. We can definitely close out that issue.
Jason Schrader: I'm curious if anybody has any comments or wants to add any more on that one.
Phillip Roe: Looks fine the treasurer. There's no need of treachery, of course.
Phillip Roe: Yes. It's the foundation will be
Jason Schrader: That is why I left that one out. But you know I'm open to talking about different roles that I think makes sense from the community perspective I think treasures are going to be handled by the board and
Jason Schrader: From there, we can see what parts that we would be more involved with. And the other big thing about this is I really wanted to see it help
Jason Schrader: Keep our GitHub updated as as much as possible. I think we have a really good flow going. And if we can continue that and and to get more people involved, and it would be helpful. So I just tried to put a little structure to it.
Brittany Laughlin: Yeah, I think adding on
Brittany Laughlin: More folks to get healthy. I think we have a good process of mercy, you know, kind of figuring out the best way to make sure that we keep everything up to date and
Brittany Laughlin: So if you haven't joined the GitHub yet. Definitely. Please request to join in, so that you can make updates and comment there as well. It's been working well.
Phillip Roe: It looks nice. I mean, it's because you already also consider the way to to implement that I had to write it and where to put it. And
Phillip Roe: I need you. We have a video how to process that we do, and also to Bobby that video and get older. It's quite a detail. So it's very useful. I think that it's a it's a good way to to put in practice where you are putting in factor into practice.
Jenny Mith: may miss this.
Brittany Laughlin: And
Jenny Mith: During your
Jenny Mith: Your update on on this bit, but did we ever talked about having like a short training session for lack of better word where you sort of go over
Jenny Mith: These different roles and have a good habit. I remember talking about it at a previous meeting and just having like a short session.
Jenny Mith: Where we go over how all this is done on GitHub, so that folks could just be more familiar with it and sign up for different roles and rotate between everybody in the group to help out.
Jason Schrader: Actually know the last thing we talked about was that I'm
Jason Schrader: Definitely open to helping anybody walk through. I was due to reach out to fill up which I actually still haven't done to go over that standard operating procedure, but let me let me jump into this link that I have here really quick for the
Jason Schrader: For the docs of phi thing. So what I just did today is we talked about taking our resources that are there across all the repos and putting it into a website form this a little easier to work with.
Jason Schrader: And this is just the first draft just turned it on. Kind of feel for it right here. But I think as we get this part finalized.
Jason Schrader: Which I will have a shortly. I mean, we're pretty much there, then I'd be happy to do some kind of walk through a workshop where we can say, hey, here's
Jason Schrader: How you do this part. Here's how you do that part. I just figured the standard operating procedures that we have are going to change slightly with how this works.
Jason Schrader: So I wanted to get this piece done first. And ideally, I would love for this to live at resources stacks.org
Jason Schrader: Which is a, it's a minor change, but it's going to require some coordination between myself and Brittany or somebody who has access. So just some little things that I wanted to get done beforehand, but I am totally open to doing something like that and I'll add it to my list as well.
Jenny Mith: Well, thank you. And all this looks really great
Jenny Mith: On the resources, fine.
Brittany Laughlin: Thank you, Jason for putting this all together. It's really
Jason Schrader: It's been, it's been a community effort to. I mean, I've been trying to grab everything from discord and these other outlets and every
Jason Schrader: Everybody has put a lot into this. So I want to turn it into something we can really use and and put out there to represent us
Phillip Roe: Anyway,
Brittany Laughlin: I have an item is around the survey. And I know that this is something that lane has been taking a lead on things I'm able to join this call that I think he has up his update here.
Yeah.
Brittany Laughlin: Fair enough, fair effective in the latest feedback and post a few more open questions this Doc is comments which is still use some feedback.
Brittany Laughlin: And this is waiting for the blog posts to be published for details. The town hall and the sentence.
Brittany Laughlin: For this to be the call to action at the end. Yeah. So I think, you know, getting a town hall plan so that that creates a call to action and but if you have more feedback on his blog posts. It looks like it's issue number. Remember
Brittany Laughlin: That 60
Jason Schrader: And I'll pull that one up real quick. I think the biggest thing we're waiting on is we wanted to do the blog post and then the email. So the email could look back at the blog post.
Jason Schrader: And then talk a little about the Town Hall if we think we're ready to think about when to schedule that or do that and I believe we were talking about doing that, like once was it once a quarter.
Jason Schrader: You know, it's a separate am
Brittany Laughlin: Yeah, I think once it once a quarter.
Brittany Laughlin: And that's what blocks that PVC does actually Jenny hosting a town hall and Friday, which is great.
Brittany Laughlin: I was saying.
Jenny Mith: We started doing them on a monthly cadence, but I am happy to take lead on helping us plan that just obviously it would require a little bit of discussion about how we'd want it to run and what our vision or it is but
Jenny Mith: Yeah, happy to take the lead on coordinating it if if that is an action item or if I'm like being too premature. Here, let me know.
Brittany Laughlin: Yeah, be great.
Brittany Laughlin: To get something scheduled and then pick a date. I. Go ahead. Jason so
Jason Schrader: Same thing. I was gonna say we haven't down as a discussion item, just because we haven't
Jason Schrader: decided what we were going to do just yet, but I think with the idea of doing a quarterly. Let's get the first one scheduled and do what we need to do in between.
Brittany Laughlin: Any other feedback on the survey or these tasks like I said I've completed objects sort of covers and if you want to go into any of the materials. He talks about the issue number 59 and number 61
Phillip Roe: Actually, the
Phillip Roe: Following up the survey respondents. I think that the least we could invite them for this governance don't work. So that's maybe probably the first activity that we can do with them.
Phillip Roe: So then then everything's put under
Phillip Roe: And add on that effort. So we don't have any effort. Yes. One effort to put all that together.
Phillip Roe: And also the, the, the results that we're going to be presenting a down home, of course, and then all that we decide what to do with that information.
Brittany Laughlin: Yeah, so I think that
Brittany Laughlin: Sounds like some of the discussion items like the town hall meeting will pull that in with the survey and events governance landing page.
Brittany Laughlin: I don't know if there's an update on that.
Jason Schrader: Actually
Jason Schrader: The link I shared and what I just kind of showed off here on that, on that resources tab. This is the startup.
Jason Schrader: So there's some room, we can customize this and do a lot with it. The biggest advantage to what we're trying to do here is just by
Jason Schrader: Updating the resources.
Jason Schrader: In the GitHub. So specifically on the resources page of stacks of there, it will automatically update the website, so that's
Jason Schrader: The, the bigger goal is that we can do the same management, we've been doing and we can do everything else that we have here.
Jason Schrader: But it gets pretty pretty out to a new format that's a little bit easier for people to digest. So that's, that's the one I'm working on and we can, we'll be able to close it out pretty soon, but for now we can just say it's in progress.
Brittany Laughlin: And then the Broncos I think Jenny, I spoke this in her stand up. So I don't know if there's anything he went around the drop blog posts.
Brittany Laughlin: Okay, so I'll move on to the meeting conference software selection. And so this was
Brittany Laughlin: We had some discussion or discord about choosing whether we want to continue to use zoom going forward or switch to a different
Brittany Laughlin: Conference and mine. I don't think we found a perfect solution yet so we may start trialing that right now. And, you know, zoom does provide a lot of it.
Brittany Laughlin: Easy infrastructure around courting and and low friction to get on board, but I think you know if anyone has experienced with any of these other video conferencing.
Brittany Laughlin: Please like I'm comments to this or kind of way. And if you if you've had really good at or experiences that mean that we should avoid it.
Jason Schrader: Yes, and I literally just added this comment.
Brittany Laughlin: Right before the meeting.
Jason Schrader: So I don't think anybody has seen this particular part yet but a little while ago I circled an article and we were just saying, What are some open source alternatives that are out there.
Jason Schrader: What is something we could get behind. And it's a harder question than I thought.
Jason Schrader: So we've been looking at a few things. And these would be some of the contenders that I found both from that article and searching. I haven't done a full on comparison of each yet.
Jason Schrader: So I don't know if all of them would work, but I am really curious both about Apache open meetings.
Jason Schrader: Jamey which looks a lot like Jesse, but has some really cool features and and really backed by the god you project.
Jason Schrader: And then eight by eight meetings pro I have that on the list, since we didn't have very much luck with jitsu in particular.
Jason Schrader: I was curious if it's worth looking at the paid plan for their parent company because we would be paying for zoom anyway. Why not pay the company that stewards, Jesse.
Jason Schrader: So those are some of the ideas I had that I threw in here. And my thought was to put this just to a little emoji vote in the channel or something. So we can figure out what to try for next week. So I'm willing to take the lead on that today.
Phillip Roe: Last night I find another one we can test also
Phillip Roe: Is something I something but
Phillip Roe: They're coming up. So several new ones who probably that's an evolving topic or emerging topic, whatever. Because if people are looking for different options.
Jason Schrader: Awesome. If you can throw just a link
Jason Schrader: To that one in the comments there or if you know if you can find it against. Is it just starts with an eye, then I would love to look at it next to the other ones. Definitely.
Jason Schrader: Definitely curious to see what we all find it. I agree, it's, it's an expanding area, but there are different requirements, right, like is it going to require our own self hosted server because that's going to be a technical requirement is going to require
Jason Schrader: You know the actual payments or how does it do the recording. There's some questions that we really want to answer there. But I think at the same time it's it's worth looking it's worth trying.
Brittany Laughlin: And then I think there's a herald shared some documents from our company fab Academy and to row one phone and I think you just said was requesting feedback about those cookies on this call and joined and so
Brittany Laughlin: If you get a chance to read through those. I think there's some really great content just the game about governance and furthering our research.
Brittany Laughlin: Now moving on to the open discussion we have a number of sort of action items around the US. So the town hall meeting. I think we've we've talked about that creating
Brittany Laughlin: You know, setting a date and then being able to work with Jenny on building out the infrastructure for that. And then I think using the time between to figure out the exact agenda on that, you know, the types of things that we want to update the community on
And
Brittany Laughlin: The new I'm scrolling through here, the new get have labels for project management. And so I think we discussed this last call. But
Brittany Laughlin: You know, Jason's been working to create tags. So it's very easy to see the things that are action items or where things the feedbacks. If you go to the GitHub page. You can see those
Jason Schrader: Yes. And actually, I think we're ready to close out that issue and I can go ahead and take that one off the agenda, but here's a quick overview of what some of those look like. And I know we talked about them last week as well but
Jason Schrader: Just some quick ones to say, hey, these are meeting items. And then as we come into like resource or notes updates. I also just want to start encouraging like hey, these are good first issues or or help wanted or things like that. So just just another organizational step.
Jason Schrader: Okay.
Brittany Laughlin: I'm sorry, somebody that needed discussion topics are
Brittany Laughlin: Similar to this Sunday action items. I just wanted to maybe create space. If there's anything that people wanted to talk about specifically or get feedback on this list.
Jenny Mith: Or how do we feel about finalizing or closing the loop on on this first blog and and can we talk about the process for publication and promotion as well.
Brittany Laughlin: Yeah, I think.
Brittany Laughlin: I guess maybe where are you out with that are the edits done, is it more about location.
Brittany Laughlin: And that from the foundation side, we have a blog on the Foundation website that we can utilize but we may also decide that, you know, hosting on a decentralized
Brittany Laughlin: Application maybe is is a good fit. If it's going to be commute like from the community, but I'm open to ideas on that.
Brittany Laughlin: Yeah.
Jenny Mith: So I've incorporated all
Jenny Mith: Edit and if everyone is comfortable with where the blog is and I think that it's
Jenny Mith: pretty much ready to go. And maybe there are some final tweaks that that folks want to make, but I don't think there's anything that is major there that can't be fixed in a couple of seconds so
Jenny Mith: I assume that this would go on the stacks org website but and I hadn't thought about having it on a on a different application. So that's something that would be good to discuss here.
Jenny Mith: And just because it's an intro blog I it can definitely be in a few places, but maybe having it on an official
Jenny Mith: Property would be a good idea.
Yeah.
Brittany Laughlin: Well yeah, I can work with you on publishing that in our
Brittany Laughlin: On our socks website, blog.
Jenny Mith: Great.
Right.
Jenny Mith: And yeah, so I can work with you directly for me on this and and
Jenny Mith: I guess we can we can have it published by the end of the week and the other issue is that
Jenny Mith: It is a short week with the holiday and say, I don't know how much attention this blog would get. I know eight originally planned to have it published
Jenny Mith: Yesterday, but it makes sense to talk about it, some of the details on the call today. I mean, it's ready to go. So we can publish it tomorrow if we wanted to.
Jenny Mith: But I didn't know if folks had strong feelings about maybe publishing it next week instead because the holiday or whether it doesn't really matter. My sense is that it would probably be fine. Tomorrow, actually, but
Jenny Mith: Wanted to put that out there.
Jason Schrader: I vote for sooner than later.
Phillip Roe: I agree.
Phillip Roe: We will you have any Independence Day this month is September, so we don't worry about it.
Jenny Mith: I'm not too worried about it this year, either.
Phillip Roe: I'm being honest.
Jenny Mith: And okay, cool. So yeah, I'll just connect with Brittany on that and we'll give an update on when it's going to be out in the discord group tomorrow.
Brittany Laughlin: Any other topics that you want to get feedback on or talk about here.
Jason Schrader: I just really quick question for you, dude on the
Jason Schrader: 6000 proposal that you put out
Jason Schrader: Did you want that to be a part of these repos, did you imagine or what do you think is the purpose of that stacks org repo versus the stacks.
Jude Nelson: So at some point the code for the stacks blockchain needs to migrate out of a organization controlled by PVC and into one control by the foundation
Jude Nelson: I'm not, I'm not married to stacks org per se. I just went ahead and grab one that just created this repo within that happy to put that in the sex Gov. If that's what people want to do though.
Jason Schrader: I think it's a it's a small detail, I was just more curious what what we were thinking in the beginning here so we'll, we'll keep things as they are, and we'll move them or change them as we need to. I don't, I don't think there's an issue to do that right now. Just curious. Thank you.
Phillip Roe: So did you
Phillip Roe: Written do you
Phillip Roe: Speak about, you know, the
Phillip Roe: Being in a in a meeting board meeting last week or or not. I missed that.
Brittany Laughlin: Yeah.
Brittany Laughlin: Yeah. Yes. I'm happy to share it, the minute, so I just have to type in that basically we covered the, you know, kind of the priorities for the foundation. So that's something that I
Brittany Laughlin: Shared in a forum post. We went over those
Brittany Laughlin: With the board and we also
Brittany Laughlin: Like talked about the grants program and and
Brittany Laughlin: I kind of dropped to the what the grant program would look like. So that's another to do for me to to share that out. I think I was largely a discussion. So just getting thoughts on paper to share with this group here.
Brittany Laughlin: And then, you know, just like the scale and the size of the grants program as our initial stuff and then being able to grow over time, especially as
Brittany Laughlin: We can do our grants in stacks. Because right now, due to regulation, we can't issue any of those grants in sex. We have to do it in a alternative so like US dollars or bitcoin, so we want to
Brittany Laughlin: Be able to transition the program from US dollars a bitcoin into stocks with the launch of socks 2.0 just getting feedback on land.
Brittany Laughlin: And then also at the board. So, you know, asking the board about adding new members.
Brittany Laughlin: You know proposed the idea of a community board seat as well as these new board nominations and they were comfortable with adding additional members to the board that way. So those are kind of the three categories that we talked about.
Brittany Laughlin: It was all very, very positive that, you know, they're very excited about what's been happening we shared with them the work that's been happening in this group as well. So I think
Brittany Laughlin: That was positive.
Brittany Laughlin: On things but with the board nominations, they, you know, are, are accepting of us, adding more but now it's kind of like the process of, okay, how do we want to
Brittany Laughlin: Consider it as the nominations. Is it, you know, profiling, the potential candidates that is both people that have been nominated people who are interested to the community or
Brittany Laughlin: Is there, you know, some other sort of process that
Brittany Laughlin: You know, helps us recruit like the best people but also gives the community really
Brittany Laughlin: You know, a voice and all of it.
Jason Schrader: If I remember right from the issue to we talked about the we're going to confirm the nominations and then possibly share that list with with the community is is the next step right
Brittany Laughlin: Yes. So with that, I have the nominations. I think I'm happy or, you know, I'd be curious your feedback on just
Brittany Laughlin: Some people who were nominated don't know that they were nominated. So if those names should be shared, or, or maybe it's shared in a smaller group like this, but just thinking about how to be mindful that some people whose names are on there. Have no idea that this is
Brittany Laughlin: That their name would be on some list and versus those who have like actively been and, you know, actively know that they're dominating
Jason Schrader: And I think that makes sense to reach out to the people first just to say, like, hey, you're on the list. And we're going to discuss the list on next week's call or something like that. Just to give them an easy way to to know they're out there. Is that a surprising. Yeah.
Great. Awesome.
Jason Schrader: Night. I'm sorry. I guess I had one more follow up question to that. So, how long were we planning to keep those nominations open and when do you think we could present those names like if we were to try and notify those people or anything else. Do we have a proposed timeline for that.
Brittany Laughlin: Yeah, I think now that we have the
Brittany Laughlin: And, you know, certain sign up from the point that we can't add more people. I think that that was, you know, just wanted to clear that first and and then now that that happened last week, we can actually
Brittany Laughlin: Look at the nomination. So yeah, I think, sharing the list as of next week, like I said,
Brittany Laughlin: Earlier on, I think this idea of rolling nominations, we can increase the board. I think there will be different members of the board. I think we can always have
Brittany Laughlin: You know consideration of new people and even if they aren't able to join maybe as a board member because of capacity, there may be opportunities for them to join like
Brittany Laughlin: You know, we've kind of roughly said, oh, maybe there's technical committees that helped weigh in on new sips or an Economic Committee, who's thinking a lot about Treasury or monetary policy.
Brittany Laughlin: People who we want to pull into our community, but maybe it isn't through the board seat. It's through different like groups like that. So I think the idea of having really nominations can help feed into a lot of the the like types of opportunities that will open up
Brittany Laughlin: But yeah, I think, delivering on this first wave providing the names. Next week after I checked with the people who've been nominated and then we can use next week's call to discuss that we can make that as an action item.
Jason Schrader: Awesome. I have that noted and I'm happy to help with that.
Phillip Roe: Thank you. Brittany for your briefing.
Jason Schrader: So I think one one other discussion item we could get a little into today that we've had on our list for a little while. Is this Fireside Chat series idea.
Jason Schrader: And we were basically just proposing the idea of bringing in outside people to do a regular Fireside Chat maybe discuss governance and context of what we're doing.
Jason Schrader: I think it would be great to as a follow up to the bog. And some of these start public efforts. Now that we have the website live will have the blog will have some of the basic setup and we'll be ready to start something like this.
Jason Schrader: So I was just curious with anyone thought on this or how we can make this a little more of an action item and start thinking about it.
Jason Schrader: I
Phillip Roe: Think that we have to
Phillip Roe: make the first move. I mean, it's decide which one is he said to do and not so complicated and just do it and then that will be a way to
Phillip Roe: To start
Phillip Roe: Whatever we do this is good. I mean, it's an Well of course you know it has to be aligned, but whatever we start doing is, it will be useful know and as Danny has done.
Phillip Roe: With this reading you call it reading or listening the video presentations of different people have done properly is a good idea to, to, to start with something like that.
Phillip Roe: Not would not a video but Maria an interview and talk with somebody
Phillip Roe: Let's do it.
Phillip Roe: Good, good. Help us there were there.
Phillip Roe: Was one of
Phillip Roe: Samson, better, more accessible.
Phillip Roe: Also this
Phillip Roe: Economy of solidarity, that's another concept and this new thing that coming up and probably could could help us understand
Phillip Roe: How ecosystem works and how we can develop that and
Phillip Roe: So that's a lot of new thinkers think especially influenced by the by the media that has has gone back to the roots of what the human beings on. So that's something that we can take advantage of that and it will be easy to to
Phillip Roe: But in this case.
Phillip Roe: Situation.
Jenny Mith: Do we have any
Jenny Mith: Context from and when this idea first came about for what we wanted to achieve with this. Not that everything has to be about being productive or and it has to have a goal, but
Jenny Mith: Was this around I collective learning, like the reading group that Philip mentioned for the business models group or and what we're hoping to achieve with the fireside chat series.
Jason Schrader: I think the idea was just to generate some discussion around these ideas that we're putting forth and everything else with some of the leaders in some of these areas and the fact you mentioned the reading.
Jason Schrader: Series with the business model group. I was just thinking about that, you know, we're getting through each of these large topics. And I know Patrick does some excellent
Jason Schrader: Podcast was with some people as well. I wonder if we could look at maybe aligning those two a little bit if we had any topics on on governance and then we also just had that radical exchange event that
Jason Schrader: We posted a whole ton of videos from. So I think the idea was more to just associate our name and say, not only are we doing this effort. We're looking at everybody
Jason Schrader: But that we also want to reach out to some of those leaders in these areas and say, What would you give us advice on our project or what do you think of what we're doing or what can we learn from you in that sense. That was at least the feeling that I got from the original discussion.
Jenny Mith: Cool, yeah.
Jenny Mith: A podcast or podcast series or I mean the series in general. Sounds really really great for that. Thanks for sharing context reason
Phillip Roe: But it's related with business models because actually
Phillip Roe: Is how we we now. And since Einstein, what more really how the ecosystems and building. I say intersect. Your helps you to build this ecosystem.
Phillip Roe: And well, this is is trying to do, then, which are the principles and the basis of has gone to work. So in that sense, is still time to to establish that before it gets frozen or getting gets
Phillip Roe: Made of concrete or, sir, that is going to be moved so that's that's more or less idea inspiration. So it's has a kind of business model influence but not only that is just the how this
Phillip Roe: Is a compilation of reciprocity, it should how it works and and how this ecosystem can benefit of all this interaction and then generates all the the prosperity for everybody and all be all people get benefit NC incentives for everybody, or how that deal and etc so
Phillip Roe: And then, well actually, all that is a new way of doing it. Well, we are learning everybody's learning
G. M.: may say that
G. M.: The reading group. The working with them.
G. M.: The meetings for the from the business model. Working Group are very successful because we are first
G. M.: Provided the previous information of so information and we discussed on something that we know we are going to discuss
G. M.: About. And I think that's what helps maybe people from the community who are not already engaged in some group to participate. And that's what I think is very interesting could be very interesting for so for governments.
G. M.: I mean, if we these for chat are on it would be nice to to have the community in being involved in
G. M.: In a way that they could really participated make the contact, not just listen to the podcast is a very good idea, but at the same time, it would be nice to have this is kind of engagement or interaction from an participation from the community.
Jason Schrader: Excellent night I noted, some of that down just to just to say that it definitely went went into my notes. And I think that's a really good point.
Jason Schrader: You know, the way we've been able to get people involved in reading sessions there it's been it's taken
Jason Schrader: I mean, it seems like people are really enjoying it. I guess is what I'm trying to say. So if we could do something similar. That's a it's an interesting thing to consider and I definitely haven't noted down. I like it.
Good.
Brittany Laughlin: Any other comments or topics that you want to discuss here, I think.
You
Brittany Laughlin: Have nine minutes left.
Jude Nelson: I had a slide deck. I could share really
Phillip Roe: Quick
Jude Nelson: If you all would find it interesting about the proposal for 6000
Jason Schrader: Sure. Let's check it out.
Jude Nelson: Up here.
Phillip Roe: Excellent.
Jude Nelson: Cool. Can y'all see it.
Phillip Roe: Yes, that's a very important question to ask, especially beginning meeting I had an issue last week on that.
Jude Nelson: I think I'd be like a little black bar at the top.
Jude Nelson: But other than that, everything's better
Phillip Roe: Yes. All right. All right.
Alright, cool.
Jude Nelson: So one thing I've been doing just in the background has been working with the Google Doc that lane shared a while back on notes on governance proposals and trying to spin that into a
Jude Nelson: Formal SIP draft which can be, which in turn will serve as the basis for how to produce more safes as well as to formalize the
Jude Nelson: Committee's and individuals responsible for the ratification process. And I just wanted to briefly go through it here with this short little slide deck, there's three parts of this
Jude Nelson: The first of which is just the draft definition of what the process is on the second part is the
Jude Nelson: Activation and lifecycle for individual sips. And the third part is the relevant committees, I'm responsible for
Jude Nelson: ushering the civic through its life cycle and the responsibilities that they have and the caveat up front is all this is subject to change strap status comments and feedback are highly encouraged.
Jude Nelson: It's based on both feedback from this working group from the previous minutes as well as from how other successful open source projects, not all of which are blockchains have managed to govern themselves.
Jude Nelson: So we formalize this. Well, I have a sip it all.
Jude Nelson: blockchains are unique among distributed systems and that upgrades system wide upgrades can be potentially very contentious.
Jude Nelson: And that's because of blockchain is more than just a piece of software. It's also it's people. It's also the people who use it.
Jude Nelson: And if you want your upgrade to go smoothly. It has to happen with the consent of its people.
Jude Nelson: So a formalized process helps that the agreed upon way to propose and discuss system wide upgrades, as well as an agreed upon way to execute them.
Jude Nelson: Critical to this are ways to measure consent, like, to what extent the community wants the upgrade to happen as well as to resolve conflicts that may arise.
Jude Nelson: And it's important that we have a formal process for this so that everybody knows what they can do to help and so that decisions that get made, as well as the people making those decisions are held accountable and made in public.
Jude Nelson: And crucially, the process is designed to be as inclusive as possible, all of its tax users. And that's again because blockchain succeed because of their people.
Jude Nelson: And not all users are developers and not all developers are core developers. So it's important to give everyone a seat in the process.
Jude Nelson: The goals of the process.
Jude Nelson: First and foremost, if we want to make any large scale changes to the blockchain. We would want it to be reviewed by the relevant X domain experts before getting applied.
Jude Nelson: So that way we don't have like for example of free willing set that tries to make a billion stacks, out of nowhere, or something crazy like that.
Jude Nelson: In addition, we want there to be a way by which discussions on upgrades, as well as feedback from said experts is public and discoverable so that we all learn and benefit from the, from the process.
Jude Nelson: And the curation process. The process is fundamentally curative
Jude Nelson: We want it to be the case that the steps are all held in one place and that the six collectively given well defined an unambiguous definition of what this tax blockchain is and what it's supposed to do.
Jude Nelson: As well as how it's supposed to operate and how changes get to that process can be applied on. That said, the process is also open. Anyone can submit a sip and anyone can participate in the governance by helping to edit review and activate the scripts.
Jude Nelson: So that said, in the proposal process. The Fall sips of the following types of properties. I'm also will have a type in by type I just mean we need to know what how the SIP is proposing.
Jude Nelson: How the safest proposing to affect the stacks ecosystem.
Jude Nelson: There'll be initial candidates for the types of sips. Those would be the consensus sips standard track technical setups operation sips medicines which govern the set process itself and informational six which simply provide helpful information or supplementary material.
Jude Nelson: In addition, I think that sits should each have one or more considerations formally listed out in them and the other consideration tells us is, who should weigh in on this, if
Jude Nelson: For example, the initial candidates. I have written in the proposal are a technical consideration and economic consideration of governance consideration and ethics consideration in a diversity consideration.
Jude Nelson: And individuals as part of the CIP ratification process, who list themselves as experts or having strong and well thought out opinions on different considerations will have a way to voice them and have their feedback incorporated into this
Jude Nelson: In addition, each SIP has a status and that's simply where it is and its life cycle like it's a draft is it under consideration. Is it going to be ratified, etc. And I have a flowchart and a few few slides. It describes that
Jude Nelson: And finally, each step has an activation section. So one thing that is important for the
Jude Nelson: Authorship process as well as the process for proposing it is to describe how you know whether or not it's activated. So the steps and criteria to determine that the stacks community is okay with the SIP going forward.
Jude Nelson: And this process, by the way, is not rigid. It's meant to be extensible through the considerations here, you can create a meta style SIP
Jude Nelson: With MSR a meta type SIP with a governance consideration to change any of the above here with it appropriate activation section that is equitable that gives everybody a chance to provide feedback on it.
Jude Nelson: Um, so to make all this work. I'm proposing that this is all I'm pretty sure this is all old hat and British. This is all in the
Jude Nelson: Google doc and posting their the three types of committees responsible for
Jude Nelson: curating the steps. So what would happen is a SIP author somebody who has a cool idea. And just wants to start the ball rolling on on getting that idea incorporated into the greater stacks blockchain ecosystem what simply write up a sip and submit it to a SIP editor for acceptance.
Jude Nelson: Crucial to be authorship of the SIP is the inclusion of an act of an equitable activation section. So like
Jude Nelson: I'm example of this could be there will be a vote on whether or not the SIP gets accepted but an unacceptable version will be like this. It gets accepted, no matter what, I'm the dictator like that would not be okay.
Jude Nelson: Um, so the first body of individuals in the governance process would be the body of SIP editors and all that they do is they make sure that the SIP that is inbound from authors so well formed
Jude Nelson: On they are novel, they don't have. They don't repeat something that a previous SIP has done and the editors work with the author to make the SIP ready for consideration.
Jude Nelson: In addition, the editors work in the background asynchronously to try to grow their ranks like to go find new set of editors and that's their governance responsibility, in addition to making sip, making sure that sips gets into a form that's ready for review.
Jude Nelson: What's this is ready for review one or more advisory boards, which are specific to each consideration this to pass. So a technical advisory board or a Governance Advisory Board or an economics advisory board.
Jude Nelson: Takes a look at all the accepted sips in a timely manner that the editors Mark has accepted.
Jude Nelson: And they can move that SIP to recommended status. So they use their expertise to provide a public recommendation for or against a particular sip on and that in turn is taken into consideration by the next company.
Jude Nelson: So the steering committee sits sits at the end of this pipeline here from the advisory boards and the editors and all the steering committee does is they pick
Jude Nelson: The subs a subset of recommended sips that can be activated and they oversee the activation of that SIP purely activation section within that city.
Jude Nelson: So the steering committee is not capricious or arbitrary and what it does. It's just following the procedure in the activation section of the step to make sure that
Jude Nelson: There's sufficient buy in from the community before it's considered to be part of the canonical set of steps.
Jude Nelson: In addition, the steering committee has a governance responsibility of recognizing working groups so informal groups of users will get together and publish advice or
Jude Nelson: Submit opinions on on steps, recognizing them into formal advisory boards so that they can have their own consideration for future sips acceptance.
Jude Nelson: And finally, Paramount and all of this is the ecosystem itself the affected parties of each SIP choose to or choose not to accept changes and the way by which this happens is described in the activation section of the SIP
Jude Nelson: For example, a consensus SIP might have a on chain voting activation section and a protocol that the
Jude Nelson: ecosystem of miners and users would have to execute technically in order for this to be ratified.
Jude Nelson: But a governance set my district choir a vote from the majority of Members members of the foundation for example.
Jude Nelson: In addition, the government's responsibility of ecosystem participants if they aren't already in one of these committees, is to run for office.
Jude Nelson: But the takeaway here is there's this inbound funnel from authors that just refine and verify steps to get them into higher and higher quality with more and more consideration, but ultimately
Jude Nelson: The set of users who make up the ecosystem decide which ones get activated and which ones do not
Jude Nelson: So that said, I mentioned that there's the status of each seven. This is the draft proposal, the proposal for the SIP lifecycle here.
Jude Nelson: Every SIP starts out as a draft and then once a SIP editor signs off. This is a well formed sip it gets accepted.
Jude Nelson: And then an advisory board, depending on what considerations that SIP has will sign off on it if it's appropriate and make sense. It's technically sound. It's ethically sound, etc.
Jude Nelson: Moves the step to recommended status. Once all sips considerations are recommended by their relevant advisory boards.
Jude Nelson: The steering committee will sign off, and then the SIP transitions to activation in progress, at which point we just track the SIP based on its activation section to see that whether or not it goes through or not.
Jude Nelson: And once the ecosystem participants move to activate the SIP transitions to ratified status at any point in each year, so it can simply can be rejected for one reason or another.
Jude Nelson: Maybe it's not up to snuff for acceptance. Maybe it's technically unsound. Something like that.
Jude Nelson: At which point the author would just resubmit the SIP as a new draft and we would just work with them to make sure that the steps well formed before it reaches activation
Jude Nelson: But once a SIP is activated like once the activation processes is is kicked off SIP can either become obsolete, like let's say it doesn't get taken up.
Jude Nelson: Or gets replaced by a better SIP that's competing with it or it gets withdrawn by the author
Jude Nelson: But the key difference here for this part of the flow chart is that activation can only happen once if the activation fails, for whatever reason, then you have to start the process over and you get a new SIP number and the
Jude Nelson: Previous SIP is simply marked as withdrawn and the reason there is just to make sure that we make progress on this. If you don't find SIP spinning forever and ever and a loop where they
Jude Nelson: never quite get activated, but they're constantly stuck in this process. And that's just to make sure to move the let's just make sure that we move the process along. And that the community doesn't get sidetracked for there being many, many, many concurrent sessions to consider.
Jude Nelson: On that said, each of these committees is open membership and transparent.
Jude Nelson: It's pretty straightforward to become a SIP editor, the proposal, I have in the document is that we maintain an invite tree of editors. So an editor can invite another person to be an editor and sponsor them.
Jude Nelson: It makes sure that they understand the editor responsibilities, then that person can go on to invite other people, etc.
Jude Nelson: And then make sure that this is a good faith and that everyone's accountable. Here we preserve the invite tree in GitHub, so that if you know if someone invites someone who's going to act maliciously or in bad faith. We can kick that person out and also pick the person who invited them.
Jude Nelson: In to become a member of the advice of an advisory board is pretty straightforward, all you would do is form a working group which is just an informal gathering of people to
Jude Nelson: Voice opinions or to take under consideration sips for ratification and these can be these working groups can be formed at the drop of a hat.
Jude Nelson: What the steering committee should do is they should invite working groups to submit sips to declare new considerations, so that working group can then formally give advice and consent for
Jude Nelson: For scripts that are under consideration and then other sim authors can explicitly asked for that group of peoples review on a SIP like let's say there's a consideration.
Jude Nelson: For something like an ERC like a particular format for a smart contract there couldn't at some point be a consideration trap for ERC type smart contracts and that ERC smart contract consideration would be reviewed by
Jude Nelson: Individuals who initially submitted their on their desire to review sips of that nature. And this is just a way to help connect SIP authors with people who have domain expertise to review them.
Jude Nelson: And finally, the steering committee. This is easily the most open ended section in the structure for me and I see that there's still issues and the governance section as well.
Jude Nelson: Um, the initial proposal is would be that we would just have three members one from PVC one from the foundation one from the community.
Jude Nelson: All subject to change. And of course, it's going to be very important that we do a good job of picking the community members to some of the steering committee.
Jude Nelson: I believe that there's a few ideas rattling around, I can write those out as well.
Jude Nelson: And the SC should not be bound to just three individual people. This is just a way to get it off the ground. I could see their SC growing
Jude Nelson: Growing to have, you know, many individuals on board for different purposes and there could even be offices within the SC depending on how big it gets
Jude Nelson: And this is kind of inspired to me at least by processes like how the freebie st project has their technical governance board or how the Debbie and project has the
Jude Nelson: Has the stuff from the public interest and the President's that that helps up, run the process for the greater set of Debbie and contributors, but that's it. Thanks for your time and this this document, the draft SIP 000 is linked on governance, issue number one.
Jude Nelson: I just went ahead and registered stacks organs and GitHub organization. But, as Jason mentioned earlier, we can move it over to stacks Gov. If you all feel that would be appropriate, but yeah. It's on GitHub. And it's public, and I welcome any and all comments.
Brittany Laughlin: Thank you.
Phillip Roe: Not less work more work more work to do in the future.
Jason Schrader: Well, what we're seeing here is the beginning right and and what I love about that is starting to see some of these formal processes come together and say, like, this is the way we can actually start doing things
Jason Schrader: So it'll be it'll be interesting because in the beginning, we do have to lay some groundwork, but I think once we get this moving. We have a process in place, it won't feel so conversations
Jude Nelson: Yeah, yeah. We just got to get past the first little bit of friction. But then, like, you know, just like how we we see either blockchain projects with lots and lots of bits, or ER sees or he IPS or or zips under consideration. Well, we hope to have similar
Brittany Laughlin: Okay. Well, I think we're
Brittany Laughlin: Just past time here. So thank you so much for that. But if you want to add the ground. If there's additional questions. I know some people have to jump but
Brittany Laughlin: Yeah. Really appreciate you sharing all that
Brittany Laughlin: I'll see you guys all a discord, then
Phillip Roe: Yes. Excellent. Thank you very much. Good start. For the process.
Jude Nelson: I gotta bounce to but I'll see you all in discord.
Phillip Roe: By
Jason Schrader: All right, thank you. And I didn't have anything else to add, either. So I think we're good to go. Just next week's call will be on the eighth. So it'll be July 8, same time, same place.
Jason Schrader: Maybe with new software.
Phillip Roe: Okay. Excellent. Thank you. That's senior
Phillip Roe: Keep good the good work.
Phillip Roe: Bouncing
Jason Schrader: Thank you. Yeah, well, we'll talk more as we get into those procedures for sure.
Phillip Roe: All right, good. That's a
Phillip Roe: Silo Gina
Thank you.
G. M.: Yes.
Phillip Roe: I just finished, Jason.
