# 20200513 Governance Working Group Call 12

Brittany (@br_ttany) is moderating today.

Agenda
https://github.com/stacksgov/pm/issues/41 thanks @whoabuddy

Brittany L: Okay, great. At a high level, the agenda today is to go over our stand ups and then I'll give a quick update on the foundation and then we'll cover action items. So things that people are working on and then go into open discussion at the end.

{The content below is using an ai transcription service so content may be slightly off}

StandUp!
Brittany L: So to kick it off. Does anyone have a update on their stand up,  what they've been working on blockers, or what they're working on in the coming week

Jenny M: I can go and I opened up an issue. Last night with some suggested topics for the first few blogs in our blog series. So, and

Jenny M: Now I have to find the issue.

Jenny M: But if we, I think that's something that we could be be agree on in the next week or so and

Jenny M: That way we can just start drafting I Jason asked a question about whether we need more content.

Jenny M: To kick start things and I think that we have a pretty good amount from the call for written contributions, a little while back. So I think the topics that I've suggested are  an intro blog.

Jenny M: On meat eat the governance working group where we profile. Some of our members and talk about everyone's ambitions and another

Jenny M: Blog on our governance inspirations. I think this group is discovered some really good resources, both conventional and unconventional, so I thought that would be a cool way to give people a glimpse into

Jenny M: Our thinking and show how block stack is trying to take a unique approach to governance and a third blog on the status of the foundation

Jenny M: Whenever we're ready to share further details there. So those were my suggested topics for the first three blogs and if anyone has any other ideas or, you know, major objections to those please feel free to share your feedback in the comments below the issue.

Jenny M: I think so. It opened that last night and I put these on the agenda for open discussion later. But I also have been doing a little work on

Jenny M: A new moderation system for the community and something that I  to propose to the governance working group in the wider community.

Jenny M: And when that's finished. So we've talked a little bit about that and I've been doing some thinking around the work that we could do on coming up with some

Jenny M: Con contributing guidelines for our GitHub repos. That's not something that really exists yet. So I've been looking at what other projects do and seeing how we could take a lead on developing some really good ones for blocks X repose.

Jenny M: Yeah, no blockers, other than no blockers, really, but would love some help and input from from this group.

Brittany L: Okay, thanks. Jeremy, and the answer will go a little more insight into discussion topic, but we'll go around and see if there's more

Jason Schrader: I can do one real quick.

Jason Schrader: So what I've been working on is the same thing. I keep saying I'm working on. And that's just in GitHub, but I appreciate everybody kind of jumping on board. We've got a little more activity going and I look forward, just to

Jason Schrader: Linking consolidating and getting a good flow to this. So we feel , hey, we brought up issues we've handled them and we just keep them moving. So I look forward to seeing more comments in there and no other no other blockers on my end.

Brittany L: Anyone else with a stand up and welcome Dan, I saw you just joined. So we're just going through stand ups.

Brittany L: And what people have been working on and what you know if there's any blockers.

Brittany L: So if there's no other standard updates. I'm happy to give my update on the foundation. And so from blockstack pbc still and the path is

Brittany L: nearing the end which I will actually be officially part of the foundation. So the entity is set up as we announced last week. The website is now live

Brittany L: You can check that out. Stacks.org and but the next step is making an announcement about the Foundation's existence as well as are really board members. And so in order to kind of set up the the entity in order to accept these drafted bylaws that we've put in place which, as we sort of discussed are mainly just the default. So we still have room to give feedback on those they haven't been accepted into the Foundation yet that we require a board to do so. So the approach has been to have a three person board as a stepping stone to get to a larger board.

In those bylaws, it lays out how board members can be removed. How board members can be added, but really looking to work with community to help find the right people to add to the board and a future date. So, you know, that could be anywhere from five members you know her advice no more than nine because then it becomes a zoo. So there are plenty of seats in which we can have different opinions different thought leaders who can be very helpful to the governance of the actual organization, the foundation. So those folks will help make sure that all of these other governance, things are in place to look at a technical committee more around technical changes. So the board will not be making decisions on that, but they can help empower the technical committee. So these are the, the next pieces that come, but we will be announcing very soon potentially as early tomorrow, just the announcement publicly that the foundation exists, and there are these are the board members.

So that's sort of what we've been working on and I'm happy to answer if there's questions we can go into that discussion as well. I'll leave it there in case there's any other stand ups. If not, we'll move on to our action item list.


WORKING GROUP ACTION LIST
Brittany L: Yes. Let's see the action items today. The first thing is the Community Survey. What should we do with the results? I know Lane gave him his update in the discord channel that he was going to go through and kind of synthesize some of the early results. There were 57 responses to the survey so it’s a good number. I don't know if it's statistically significant in terms of some of the answers, but I think it will give a good introduction to some of the community that exists. So in terms of what we should do next and folks that ideas of, you know, should we publish these somewhere should be great, you know, sort of share the results in GitHub and then if things change, we can update them accordingly and open to hear thoughts from this group.

Jason Schrader: Yeah. And if you scroll down a little bit further to lane actually come in and in this issue. So you'll see the info there and it sounded  we were going to start with the  first order insights as he said, just some basic information that he can glean from the top.

We actually I think that's linked to the forum posts, but I wanted to find and I'll post in here, the issue that involved the Community Survey and we can funnel. The comments there as well. So let me grab that very one real quick.

Oh, and other than dropping that link in though. I think this is the this is the basic idea unless anybody has any input or would to see something different.

Phillip Roe: What am I thought it was going to be for each question is to divide the surveys. Put all the questions in the same question altogether and of course not losing them. What did you know reference. So question 1234 whatever and then won't which server came up so it would it be okay. But one 257. So we'll just put them all. Each one that will respond that in all together in order to have a whole idea what they're talking about each answer.

And then if we need to correlate among the different responses, you know, the two to see that, then we can go back also to the region, the region or what but then that that what that way could be published in terms of questions, of course, is it big. It gives you the trend and ideas and all that. Well, that's how we did it.

Some service, especially in terms of research and development. And really help sometimes

Brittany L: That's great. It sounds like it’s important to be able to see  all of that initial data. I think Lane can actually share just all of the pure output. So he was going to do some analysis, but if you're interested in kind of going deeper on the data itself. I'm sure we could see about you know how to do that or just make sure that the data is anonymized so that it's not completely transparent,  who's, who's there it is, but being able to get more granular detail there so that we can follow up with that.

Jason Schrader: Yes, and I guess what my head so I dropped a link to the original Governance Survey issue in GitHub in the chat here. And then I also just made a mention of one of the open issues as well as this call. So we've got it all kind of linked together now.

Brittany L: Okay, thank you, Jason. If there's any more comments on the community service because

Juliet Oberding: I just wanted to mention about the that Lane mentioned, if anyone was interested in helping us when it got to the stage after she's reviewed and when it gets to the stage, which I think Philip was mentioning, looking over the initial goals and then looking over each of the answers and being able to determine, you know, what is the general community, the spots. I just wanted to mention that

Brittany L: Sounds like we have a call to Action. Once you've gone through some of it. The next action item was around the blog post and then I know that there was some work that you know as Jenny mentioned just around the Project Board and how to collaborate on the work. Making sure that we're documenting the things that we've learned the things that we've done and then also just who the members of the government's working group are I think that it's very timely as we are now moving more operations underneath the foundation that can continue to be at home. So to help highlight and encourage more people to be take an active role in the governance process. If you wanted to add a little more Jenny in terms of next steps or actions, you'd want to take.

Jenny M: Her yeah I think in the biggest next step is just agreeing on these first few topics. And  I said, I think that we do have enough content from the recent written contributions to get

Jenny M: A good few blogs going and I think I mentioned this call last week.

Jenny M: That we have a lot of great content and I would hate to dilute any of the commentary from this group. So having a series of shorter blogs is probably the most effective way to communicate and

Jenny M: I'm just  looking towards the future. I'm excited about the prospect of these blogs being something that community members really look forward to and having them be, you know,  a semi monthly sort of

Jenny M: Release or you know whatever cadence that we

Jenny M: Decide on that's me maybe getting myself so because I know that I don't think it's necessary to give ourselves any more work than than what we need to take on. But I, you know, say that we should start with these first few

Jenny M: Whatever topics we're comfortable with and I mentioned earlier the the topics that I've suggested are  a meet the governance working group blog read profile everyone and to share a little more about what our ambitions are with our work here and

Jenny M: A second blog introducing where we've drawn a lot of art, our ideas from I think this group has done such an amazing job doing research and being really thorough

Jenny M: In our thinking. So I think that would be something that would not only be good to share with our community, but

Jenny M: To leave as an artifact for other communities that are also working on governance and and a blog introducing the Foundation, which I know will have one with the announcement. So maybe we could take a bit of a different direction with how we would approach the work that we've been doing on the foundation side of things from this group yet. Any questions or comments from folks here. Any major objections to the topics that have been suggested?

Brittany L: I think this is great. And maybe, you know, I see for really great topics here. I wonder if we can kind of, as has been added. If we can decide on two or three, maybe it's even one or two.

You know blog posts and I think, to your point that these are in GitHub and people can read comments below. So, for example, introducing. Who are the people in this working group. That could start with a series of just answers for an individual thing, you know, kind of giving a little bit about your background. What brought you

To participate in the governance working group or what do you hope to achieve with that, maybe, something  that. We could start as a first trial and how we collaboratively bring all of this information together, but I'm open to thoughts from others and whether that makes sense.

Phillip Roe: Really

Jenny M: Cool. Yeah, I think I've got some of that info from people and I'm happy to sort of chase down in the next week or so and so, I suppose, I can take the lead on on drafting a first draft of the first blog if we're cool with the first one being an intro to the governance working group and it have

Something a little more substantial to show the group in the next week or so and from there we can we can try to we can try to publish pretty quickly as well.

And I should also been an issue about where we want this blog to live. I assume that moving forward the stocks foundation will have its own blog and I was thinking we could use central for the time being, and move all that over and share it on other platforms. Once we're ready to do so.

Brittany L: Yeah, yeah. So, we will have a blog. And right now there's one default with our Foundation website, but I would love for more of this stuff to be hosted on more blocks act tools. So maybe we can cross post to the government. And eventually migrate everything over to one of the Blockstack Decentralized blogs. Cool. Thanksk.

Jenny M: That's it for.

Brittany L: And then yeah effects. You know some of those other blog posts. If you have comments now that you want to comment I think adding those to github. If we can focus on getting one published but those other ones. If you want to go ahead and start weighing in or if you have thoughts or ideas, those different cards are great places to leave comments we can go from there.

The next sort of action item we have here is on the SIPs governance proposal. This is the document that lane had helped put together and shared with the community. And so this process. We've had engineers from blocks PBC weigh in. The SIPS process has largely been managed by blockstack PBC but as part of our decentralization this whole process will be moved under the foundation in terms of coordinating this process, but any individual can contribute to a SIP, which is writing a proposal of what can be improved. If you haven't had a chance to read through the proposal, please do and add any comments you may have about the process itself.

I think the next steps is to resolve a number of the comments that are open so you know questions. Specific comments around how a SIP gets accepted or one of the stages. For example, if everyone agrees that a new upgrade should happen.

The SIP proposal may get approved, but it won't actually get implemented, unless it's adopted by miners. So kind of just distinguishing. What does that state mean if it's approved, but there are actually other people who have to do work in order for it to exist. So I think some of those open questions are where I'd love to see more feedback from this group, especially given all the research that's been done of what other people do or how those different stages give clarity on what is decided, but maybe not fully accepted yet.

Jason Schrader: Excellent. And anybody looking for the link to that shared document. It's actually in that issue that's linked right there from proposal, number one. Inside of there in the comments is the doc inside a doc is a ton of comments and a lot of really good information. So definitely recommend everybody getting in there and dropping. Any thoughts that they have as well. Thank you for showing that.

Brittany L: Yeah, it's, it may seem like a long document, but the first two or three pages are really great background kind of summarizing how other projects use their improvement proposal processes. So if you're new to this type of proposal, I think that it's, you know, Lane did a great job of giving a really high level overview of what has worked for other people.

I think in the way that this is broken up these action items. These are all things that hopefully by next week we'll be able to point back and say, we've now achieved this. I think breaking it out and these very action item things. This is a place where everyone in this group can kind of tune in. Maybe it's contributing to one or multiple of these action items. Thank you for that.

Now we can move on to open discussion.

Jason, if you had some thoughts on if we should go through these topic by topic or if if people wanted to surface, the things that they wanted to discuss

Jason Schrader: That is something I was open to debate on and just kind of curious as I was setting out the agenda thought, hey, if we could just have a little bit of separation on things we can act on.  you were saying. And then things that we make sure we bring to the discussion each week.

Jason Schrader: So for the Community research observer. For example, you know, we talked about, we have the bare bones in place, essentially, but we don't have an official process that's voted to Dan or anything  that.

Jason Schrader: So I'm curious what others think but I do  that idea. I  the idea of having this list every meeting, having it up on the screen. I actually enjoy reading through the agenda this way.

Jason Schrader: And from there, if anybody has any comments or wants to bring it to an action item that might be another next step or way people can interact


Jason Schrader: And I guess I can add a little more to that because some of them. I do have a few comments on two. So two biggest ones. On this list that jumped out to me is that one for the shared resources. I don't understand, in my mind, how we could all share a block stack account. And if it's not possible, that's okay, but I do see a use case for a business account or something that could be shared.

And there might be another layer that needs to be built on top or something else, but that's one of the bigger issues that I keep rolling over every week, just to get some input on because I'd love to see that even for the blog if that were possible. Or maybe we just keep it individually with people, a few things to think about.

I also linked in the founding document review just because, as we're in these early stages. We talked about it last week. It's good to start looking at the Mission Statement and vision statement. A lot of this work we've done already, and research we've done already as everything's coming into form. So those are the two biggest ones for me that I don't have exact action items on but definitely open for discussion. If anybody has any comments.

Phillip Roe: And got one of the the blockers is it's time to concentrate and in this important matter. Because you know that well as you know that everyone knows that we're having too many hats and our hands and we went to move ahead. The technology and applications and also we want to move this forward.

You know, the governance. So, is how to create a space in order to really work on this and dedicate one day governance day completely and then maybe we can get updated on that or up to date and then maybe have a conclusion of that and because you know this because it could be a long way, a long journey. If we keep on not concentrating in a very intensive period of time because in order to have all your heads a creative way. And have a consensus on what we want to do.

Jason Schrader: I do understand what you're saying. Philip, but at the same time, my, my goal or my hope would be to set this up in a way that makes it a little easier to digest and small pieces. Because I do understand that's, that's tough and governance day that, that sounds to me like a holiday. Nobody wants the same time it's been a really fun process just putting it all together. And I would be interested in better ways that we can we can make it into smaller pieces that are easier to digest. Just I said before, because I don't want you to feel burdened

Jason Schrader: Just by me even setting up an agenda or something else I want to make sure that we can cover the parts that we want to cover and that we can actually get in there without feeling we have to spend too much time on it.

Brittany L: Yeah, I like the idea. You know, I think that this call every week is a great way to highlight what's happening in the community and really surface, the different work streams going on but I agree that

Brittany L: This meeting is not great for actually coming to conclusion or consensus around a lot of major decisions things them updates to the foundation formation documents or about ways to implement the research and server, so perhaps you know these

Brittany L: Topics can then be broken down into smaller groups and that way they can kind of a sink so it's if you're interested in the Community research server.

Brittany L: That would mean that you could collaborate with maybe two or three other people in this working group and then come back with an update.

Next week, and it could be surface in a way that it's more structured because I agree, it may be hard to to gain expertise or have an opinion about every open discussion that we have, but maybe taking some of that effort and really focusing in and then being able to collaborate that way. So I know that we have our discord channel. And that can be a potential way to to go through some of these discussion topics.

I'm open to thoughts on whether that works or if it's or if you know structured calls are better.

Phillip Roe: That's a good way to work it in as committees and then bring something we should prepare.


Jenny M: A definitely appreciate the work that's being done here and trying to make things more digestible for everyone who is interested because governance. Even the word makes it sound  we're tackling some really huge issues which we are and but I do think that governance can mean lots of things in practice. So some of you know  what Britain using the way that we choose to work is a form of governance and I don't remember who shared this in the discord channel but I think

Jenny M: Jason, maybe it was you shared a group that has been conducting working groups over email for years and has been doing it really effectively. So, and there's some groups out there who

Jenny M: Do this work asynchronously to be in a pretty successful way. And I think part of that is is just understanding what decisions fall under the scope of governance.

Jenny M: And it's , so  one of the practical examples of governance, I'm I think about a lot is, and I've mentioned this on a few calls and probably starting to sound  a broken records but

Jenny M: And community moderation. So giving  a snapshot of where we are now. And in the discord server. For example, there are only a few people who have most permission. So if you want to start a new channel if you want to

Jenny M: Delete spam or ban users who aren't following the code of conduct, you have to ask somebody

Jenny M: With those privileges and there are only a handful of people who have them. And that to me is not a permission list system. And I really spend a lot of time thinking about how we can make that permission list and not only Permission list but

Jenny M: A system that we can scale to hundreds of thousands of people, which I'm hoping is the size of of our community, you know, a few years from now, so

Jenny M: That's something that's pretty foundational to me. And that is a huge part of governance and I can see that kind of thing being worked on in

Jenny M: In various issues on GitHub. Hopefully it's something that I  happy to give an update about on these calls every week and should anyone want to join forces with me.

Jenny M: We could, you know, coordinate on GitHub, or over email and and  I think that would be just as effective as coming together and talking about it every week too so

Jenny M: And it's definitely a work in progress. And I feel  we will get more comfortable with this as we go on, but I think, you know, looking back at the founding document and refining this as we go. Is is definitely the key. So thanks for all of your work on that Jason

Jason Schrader: Thank you. I just hope, I hope it helps everybody get things more organized and I'm happy to be a part of it. Thank you.


Phillip Roe: Have been it has been he turned about that that's really useful and helpful.

Brittany L: So if anyone has any more comments on his specific open discussions or there's other topics. If you want to bring up this call. I know we have an agenda that's very efficient. So we have we have time to discuss anything else that's top of mind for people

Phillip Roe: The terms of language translation, you know, just the Grammar is not so complicated, but I think that it could be a problem structure is you know that
Phillip Roe: How that could be implemented in terms of the of the content. So I don't. I have not seen a way a clear way that it could be Implemented.

Phillip Roe: And down. That, of course, we, we should maybe bro really is select us as it was suggested to concentrate in a couple of these topic each of each one of us and invite people and then have more meetings. To study and then try to come up with something and that's an action that we can do now.

Brittany L: Okay, yeah, I can copy these discussion topics and they are all linked in github. For example, I want people to work on number 32 languages in translation. And find some peers to collaborate on that. I think that would be very beneficial.

Brittany L: It's  we've tried to find, but an actual step is we don't know. We have to table some items until later, but I think trying to find a path forward for a number of these and which ones is a next step. The group is most interested in pursuing. To your point, I think it's a great way to actually make big progress towards a solution.

Okay.

Are there ideas anyone wants to share. I know that we've had some good discussion this week, sharing a lot of articles and the governance group just round. You know, governance gone wrong governance, you know, kind of think about it, said, If anyone wanted to surface. Any thoughts or they have are things that they would recommend others. To feature that kind of thing.

Jenny M: And yeah, I mentioned this earlier in the call, but something I've been looking at and working on is examples of contributing guidelines that we might want to adopt for for block stack, I can share some of the examples that I've come across that I think are really good.

Jenny M: would love some some feedback from folks here. I know this has come up before but with the technical committee.

And in the foundation. I assume this is going to be a bigger work stream moving forward. And this goes back to, you know, the issue of of permission lists and so that I mentioned earlier. But at the moment, there isn't really a standardized process for community members to contribute to ourrepos, and I think establishing one could be really great for for scaling and just in for technical governance in general and the two projects that I've looked at are huge, but they are really good examples. So Adam has crazy comprehensive guidelines and notes as well. So if you're looking at those and looking at their theses for how they're contributing guidelines work and why they're so effective for their large communities. So I can share those resources. And I can also open up an issue about this as well, but I did want to get initial thoughts or books about, whether we think this is something good for us to tackle and I can see us working in collaboration with the proof transfer group as well, since there's a lot of technical expertise there, and I assume those folks are the ones who are probably going to be most affected by contributing guidelines in the future.

Jenny M: I think she said yes, this would be specifically for the stacks blockchain repo, for example. And, you know, how can someone get write access to suggest or edit, can they be granted those privileges. What, what would you have to do. It's not clear to me what those those rules are, and I think that some of this work would be preferable to SIPs as well. But if we could come up with them. I could see, you know, the open source goodness of our project really growing and developing as well.

Jason Schrader: Yeah, that definitely makes sense. Thank you.

Jenny M: No problem, and anyone has any thoughts, please feel free to share and again I'll share all those in issue and share those resources as well.

Brittany L: Thanks, Jenny.

Phillip Roe: Excellent. Thank you.

Brittany L: Well, if there are no more comments and I guess we can give them some time back to folks fair but I appreciate everyone joining in. And thank you, Jason again for organizing such a great agenda very clear action items. I think we have you know a number of work streams and so being able to work on those. I think it's really exciting also just upcoming announcements around the foundation. I think we'll hopefully have some new members join this group. So I think that that will be interesting to see. Get some more perspectives as we grow. So yeah, thank you guys all for for helping make this group. What is this

Jason Schrader: All right, thank you everybody. I look forward to seeing you on GitHub.

Phillip Roe: Yeah, thank you very much and I hope you have a rest because looks  it's very early today.

# General Resources

See [Stacks Governance Working Group Calls](https://stacksgov.github.io/resources/#/calls/?id=governance-working-group) for the table of past calls.

See [Stacks Governance Resources](https://stacksgov.github.io/resources/) for additional information related to governance of the Stacks blockchain.
