Lane Rettig: Okay, recording is live.
Juliet Oberding: Awesome. Good morning. It is Wednesday, May 27 and this is the governance working group I'm Juliet and nice to see you all.
Juliet Oberding: And let's get started with our stand up today.
Juliet Oberding: So what's what's happened for everyone over the last week.
Juliet Oberding: Is the usual questions. What are you working on. Are there any blockers and what's going to happen for you over the next week. Who'd like to get started.
Jason Schrader: And I can start for that one. Or actually, Jenny. If you want to go. Go ahead.
Jenny Mith: No, go ahead. Jason
Jason Schrader: Alright, so for me I wanted to start with a quote today because I had done this in the past and it's been a while since I've done that and I found one that I thought was really relevant to today.
Jason Schrader: So the, the quote for today is do not waste your time dwelling on thoughts of things that may never happen instead make things happen that you may have never thought
Jason Schrader: So I like that one that I wanted to share with the group and other than that. My main focus right now. I have got some catching up to do I have
Jason Schrader: Notes from the past two calls that I want to put together. We've talked a little bit about reorganizing resources and kind of thinking through our new structure as we move forward with the website and the real foundation and all the fun things
Jason Schrader: So I'm going to keep going down that avenue. I do not have any blockers, though. I mean, aside from me blocking myself so I'm going to work on that and get it up and other than that I am good to go. So we can go to the next person.
Jenny Mith: Thanks for that, Jason. Yeah. So two things. And it's funny that Jason said no blockers, other than himself because that's what I was thinking about myself.
Jenny Mith: With the the blog post and I have something drafted, it's just not very pretty. So I'm not going to share it just yet. I made the mistake of looking at blogs written
Jenny Mith: By other communities, I was reading the intro to the governance working group blog by cosmos. And it's super comprehensive, it's really long and it made me start to think that we need to include
Jenny Mith: Some information that we don't have. And I think that was totally a mistake because we obviously have our own way of doing things. So as soon as I get a draft together that I do feel comfortable sharing, I can
Jenny Mith: Share that on GitHub and with the group. So I'm going to set a deadline for myself of
Jenny Mith: Friday or Monday I may or may not need the weekend but
Jenny Mith: You should see something before the next meeting. The other thing that I worked on last week in on Friday was I went through some of the materials that Harold has been sharing. I know he's been really excited about the possibility of us working with
Jenny Mith: fab Academy. And so we had a long call on Friday just discussing some of the possibilities and the next step for us is to just come up with a one pager to share with the group.
Jenny Mith: That breaks down some of the terminology and some of the core concepts just summarizing what we're, we're thinking of doing
Jenny Mith: With fab Academy and once the group feels comfortable with everything we're thinking about their
Jenny Mith: Harold says that we would probably be ready for a meeting with tomasky is which I think would be really interesting for this group to take the lead on so
Jenny Mith: No blockers there, other than just getting that one pager out to make sure that everyone is up to speed, but if there any questions that come up, feel free to ask us, but yeah. But is it free and I worked on a few other things as well. But we can save those for the discussion for the end
Lane Rettig: Thank you both for those updates. I have to
Lane Rettig: Mention that there's something deeply philosophical around being your own blocker, but that's a
Lane Rettig: Separate rabbit hole.
Lane Rettig: So a small thing first, which is been thinking as I was reviewing some of the work that
Lane Rettig: Jason and some other folks didn't get hub just thinking a little bit about the like.
Lane Rettig: I tend to use this term a lot, but the user experience, right, the experience of someone like landing on some sort of governance landing page and you know that would most likely be something like stacks.gov
Lane Rettig: And so, obviously, you know, curious to hear pretty nice thoughts on this as well. But, um,
Lane Rettig: What, what sort of what do we want that experience of that journey to look like, right, what sort of material. Do we want them to see and what sort of call to action. Do we want there to be there.
Lane Rettig: Just been been thinking a little bit about this as we have been doing some restructuring of the documents and get hub.
Lane Rettig: No particular blockers. They're just curious what other people think.
Lane Rettig: And then the bigger thing I've been doing is I began the process of reviewing the survey results which has been really, really interesting. I think we have a bullet point on today's agenda for that. So I'll save the details there.
Lane Rettig: Prepared a preliminary report on that some of my own thoughts and some next steps. So yeah, again, just curious, I guess, to hear other people's thoughts and input on that. And I guess I'll keep working on it. Thanks.
Brittany Laughlin: Yeah, I was looking around on the
Brittany Laughlin: GitHub yesterday. So just, you know, kind of, there's so many great resources in there and I think
Brittany Laughlin: You know, figuring out like how to best make it really easy to update those resources because I know there's a lot of work that's gone into making everything very organized. But how do we
Brittany Laughlin: You know, kind of maintain that organization, even as more people start contributing and kind of blend in and want to help out. So I think that's a really good thought process there. I've been
Brittany Laughlin: thinking a lot about
Brittany Laughlin: You know, there's all these various work streams that I think are related to governance and to the foundation
Brittany Laughlin: So just thinking about how to communicate. Like, what the roadmap potentially is in sort of saying like, these are the things that are most important immediately. These are the things
Brittany Laughlin: You know that are coming, but they're not ready yet. So if you want to like jump in on them, you can. So just trying to figure out, like, what is the right medium in which to like
Brittany Laughlin: Express that because it is you know it is a plan, not like a Definitive Guide to like exactly what will happen. So I want people to be able to see a transparently, but also not
Brittany Laughlin: Like worry if there, if you know if something else comes up and it's not in that play and then it's it's excluded. It just needs to be considered separately. So we're gonna
Juliet Oberding: Do you want to speak.
Today,
Juliet Oberding: Do you have a stand up.
Juliet Oberding: Alright.
Juliet Oberding: Well, I guess we will move on from the stand ups and then we'll go to the next one, with on the agenda that I'm seeing, which is the Community Survey. And that's issue.
Juliet Oberding: Number one, and Elaine, are you going to be talking about that or is someone else going to present the survey with the results in the report and reaching out to respondents
Lane Rettig: Yeah, yeah, and more than happy to. I just want to be cognizant also the fact that Jason had
Lane Rettig: proposed alternative agenda format here, which I think structure is the call a little bit differently. So I totally fine if we go in this order. I just want to make sure we're all on the same page about which agenda, we're looking at
Juliet Oberding: That's really a good point.
Juliet Oberding: Um, did you hit was the link on the other on discord, Jason.
Lane Rettig: It's the same link if you just
Lane Rettig: scroll all the way down. You'll see it. It was posted as a
Lane Rettig: As a, as a in line comment Jason very kindly didn't want to overwrite the agenda, before we had talked about it.
Juliet Oberding: Yes, sorry. My goal was
Jason Schrader: To create less confusion. I didn't mean to.
Jason Schrader: Thank you. Thank you for that.
Brittany Laughlin: Okay, yes. I think that's the be
Brittany Laughlin: Foundation up first from reading it right
Brittany Laughlin: Um, so yeah. Last week we had
Brittany Laughlin: We announced the launch of the organization as well as the as two board members and I sort of
Brittany Laughlin: You know we did an introductory post at hello sex foundation and I wrote up just a few more thoughts in the forum around, you know how we came
Brittany Laughlin: To this decision around these different board of directors. So what, you know, sort of the key pieces were around and we needed to have three minimum board members in order to set up the organization and I will be
Brittany Laughlin: A board member and then two board members have experienced being on boards before they serve as fiduciaries in their primary role their existing
Brittany Laughlin: Members at the success community they own stocks tokens. And so we wanted to make sure to try and really check the box on how do we make sure that there's confidence that
Brittany Laughlin: There will be financially responsible individuals helping set up the board so that minimum board was announced, and then kind of is a
Brittany Laughlin: A another piece of that was this idea of calling for other board nominations and, you know, we wanted to get something active and alive so that organization but recognize that in order to do so, we actually had to move sort of quickly and kind of be very diligent about how we
Brittany Laughlin: Announced to those like initial port numbers were and making sure that get them signed on first and then this idea of calling for board nominations, I think, is
Brittany Laughlin: Is really exciting, but also it's kind of a greenfield of how the execution will specifically look. So, you know, finding a way to have community input and get collected. But then in terms of how the
Brittany Laughlin: Those nominated individuals actually get you know selected or
Brittany Laughlin: Approved by the Community is something that I think that is like a big project. And you know, I think that there's a lot of ways that we can go about that, especially with the other research.
Brittany Laughlin: So on the goal of that, though, was to ensure that people know that
Brittany Laughlin: Like we want good people. And if you're learning about this for the first time and you would like to contribute. There's like a place to go do that. And then over the next probably, I'm assuming, like 123 months like really trying to actively
Brittany Laughlin: Come up with a process and then also getting board members added. So whether that's one board member, whether that's three
Brittany Laughlin: And there's flexibility in that, but I think it's just like making sure that it's representative of the different things that aren't currently on the board that we want to be on board, so that's
Brittany Laughlin: What's top of mind for me. So I think with this group, you know, thinking about board nominations. Is this something we
Brittany Laughlin: Discuss in GitHub is this for you know like writing it up on the forum. Is it just conversational and discord, kind of like how to get input on this process.
Brittany Laughlin: So that we can kind of move it along and move it forward and feel like there's a lot of people who have collaborated versus just saying, hey, here's how we're going to do it. And we're going to go ahead and do it.
Jason Schrader: I'm curious with the forum posts that you have up already. And with the block survey. Have you gotten any responses, just like a total count. You don't have to share any other info, but are you getting a little bit of response there.
Brittany Laughlin: Yeah, I haven't checked.
Brittany Laughlin: Let me just double check again this morning, but I had like
Brittany Laughlin: Three responses so far, but
Brittany Laughlin: I will
Phillip Roe: Well, good morning. Sorry for about being late.
Phillip Roe: I think that the the announcement that of the launch of the foundation with very important because that
Phillip Roe: And brings me to do math related materiality of
Phillip Roe: concrete action that we need that more than men above board member. So, as you said, probably the the generator movement of
Phillip Roe: You know, people, you know, knowing what we need and all that. That would be wonderful opportunity to participation.
Phillip Roe: Especially if we announced that and then so that we bring the people you know to get know the foundation that we need are all that that will be a good excuse in order to to present the foundation and make it the more more
Phillip Roe: Massive decision. So it's been, I think that is a wonderful opportunity to do to let know the what we're doing.
Brittany Laughlin: Okay.
Brittany Laughlin: Just confirming, we do have three nominations from folks.
Phillip Roe: You
Juliet Oberding: Go ahead, Felipe
Phillip Roe: Board members that is already nominated and two men.
Brittany Laughlin: Yes.
Brittany Laughlin: Yeah, all the nominees are men so far too. So I think we can think we can do better than that.
Juliet Oberding: Have you thought about the process yet about. I know that that's up for discussion with whether we're going to discuss and get hub for the forum or
Juliet Oberding: The discord that have you thought about like the is it be, would it be more traditional where the nominated person provide some sort of
Juliet Oberding: Bio and there's an interview or anything like that. Or we come up with our own
Juliet Oberding: Nomination are going through the process for the person
Lane Rettig: We need yes or deal, you need to tell the person to go steal
I love that.
Brittany Laughlin: Yeah yeah i think i you know the default thinking it's like okay um, you know, is this person.
Brittany Laughlin: You know, a legitimate person. Are they a good fit. Do they meet someone like the values criteria which I would imagine is through an interview.
Brittany Laughlin: With of that interview was recorded and shared with the community or if it's you know there's someone from the community. Also on that as part of that like back to be way to bring it in, but I think
Brittany Laughlin: Yeah definitely doing sort of the diligence that you would want to make sure that this person is capable has the time to do it. And then also meets all of the values I think in terms of what happens if there's multiple people that seem like
Brittany Laughlin: A great fit and we have limited
Brittany Laughlin: Capacity and is, you know, I like I'm looking at what other folks have done and
Brittany Laughlin: I think you know some of the thing is, like, Well, why don't we vote. The people in who should be in and the challenge with that is that if you don't have enough people voting, then it becomes about getting enough votes to even make it credible and so the flip side of that is, I think,
Brittany Laughlin: Like the caches nominations. What they do is they do like an approval process. So, you know, people can approve or disapprove of people and that kind of
Brittany Laughlin: Give signal if there's like some concerns and those can then be addressed, but it's not like you have to vote to get in. It's more like flagging if there's
Brittany Laughlin: There's issues. Once you've kind of come to a select few who you think would be the right fit. So I think like that and process of
Brittany Laughlin: You know, if we have too many people. What do we do then. But I think the initial process is just validating that these are quality people that we would want. And you know personally like I will be working with them. So I want to make sure that you know there are people that are
Brittany Laughlin: Are really going to represent and show up and do the work that we wanted to. And then in the community and in the board.
Lane Rettig: There's so many interesting pieces to this conversation about, you know,
Lane Rettig: Where those people might be and how to find them and the whole process like you're describing, I just wanted to
Lane Rettig: And I think it is definitely a longer conversation, but I wanted to add one thought which is Brittany. You had mentioned maybe on the forum.
Lane Rettig: The possibility of there being we talked about this before as well, of course, like a possibility of there being like a community representatives, so to speak on the board. I think that's a wonderful idea and I think
Lane Rettig: I of course love to see that happen. And I think that that is maybe something that that we as a group here could discuss in slightly more concrete terms like how we might
Lane Rettig: Put forth such a nomination, so to speak.
Brittany Laughlin: Yeah.
Brittany Laughlin: Yeah, so I like the idea of a community chair and so like, you know, for example, the teases Foundation has like a community chair on their board.
Brittany Laughlin: And and that means that the attendee to the board meeting, maybe different each time, but they are representing the community so it's
Brittany Laughlin: their responsibility to kind of solicit feedback from the community sort of provide a the research around like the sentiment, the different issues that are concerns to the community.
Brittany Laughlin: And then represent that like those various interests at the board meeting. So what they have found is that because they have a lot of
Brittany Laughlin: You know sub groups that kind of are focused on different things, whether it's like about their economics or consensus or
Brittany Laughlin: Just, you know, community developer outreach that they get to cycle and kind of represent in different ways. So I think that that's really interesting because it doesn't limit it to a single person.
Brittany Laughlin: Having to represent everyone. It's saying that like you know the person who attends is going to have to do all this, a lot of legwork. Actually, in order to be a good representative, but
Brittany Laughlin: Everything will be heard at the board level. So I think that's like really interesting. I don't know what you guys think about that but i was i thought that that was pretty cool.
Phillip Roe: Believe that, sorry.
Lane Rettig: Please don't you
Phillip Roe: Know, just essentially what I
Phillip Roe: Seen, you know, as a good way of governance is is Elisa another board member has to be members of the community.
Phillip Roe: As a minister, doesn't matter. You know what they do but they had to be members of our community in general. I mean, because if done not committed to, to the
Phillip Roe: The purpose of the of the institution or the, what we want to achieve is will be a break down there in the future for near future, whatever, whatever happens, you know,
Phillip Roe: We had to maintain unity in what we are doing. So in that sense, has to be a member of the community participation and
Phillip Roe: Then candidates, this is complicated. You can nominate but candidate is always difficult because you know ego comes in and sometimes ego is not something that is very health healthy for institutions.
Lane Rettig: I agree 110% on
Lane Rettig: Phillips last point that's that's a big thing. And that's something
Lane Rettig: That we should bear in mind as we consider
Brittany Laughlin: The right
Lane Rettig: person or people for this role, I just wanted to add two quick thoughts to what Brittany said
Lane Rettig: To based on, not surprisingly, the things I've seen and experienced in theory and being a person who was kind of a little bit in this role for a while. I sort of a liaison between the Community and the Ethereum foundation
Lane Rettig: The first thought is that it's very hard. It's a lot of work to
Lane Rettig: Follow all those channels right to kind of keep a pulse on what's going on in the community. It involves in practice, things like attending a lot of events and
Lane Rettig: being active on Twitter and being active on Reddit and putting up with a lot of trolls and just making oneself available. So it. Yeah, it's a lot of work. So people should be aware of that. And the second is,
Lane Rettig: There is one de facto person one person in this de facto role in a theorem Hudson Jamison if if you follow with him at all and and that's not great either. He's a, he's a wonderful person who works very hard, but as a result of there being a single person in that role. You know, he
Lane Rettig: To put it bluntly, like comes under attack, a lot, a lot of people in the community feel that for whatever reason.
Lane Rettig: Their interests are not being represented and it's not Hudson's fault or
Lane Rettig: You know, they're trolls will be trolls, that kind of thing. And so I guess what I'm suggesting is actually, if it is like written you spoke a moment ago about Teslas.
Lane Rettig: It's more of a rotating thing I could see that relieving some of that burden upon a single person. So I just want to share that as well.
Brittany Laughlin: Yeah, I think that's a great point. Like, I think, and
Brittany Laughlin: Unfortunate. There's no simple solution like there is going to be a lot of work, especially representing the whole community and
Brittany Laughlin: You know it's why the board represents the, you know, organizing up the foundation and you know making
Brittany Laughlin: Like financial related decisions to how like money gets allocated within the organization. So like salaries and things like that.
Brittany Laughlin: But it will not be in control of like the technical committee. And I think the way that grants get issued also
Brittany Laughlin: You know, the board can have input maybe on the process, but they won't control who's getting money where so it's just trying to spread out.
Brittany Laughlin: More of these different functions to a lot of people who can then like specialize and really
Brittany Laughlin: Understand the complexities of those things. And I think that's why it's important to have a board that has very broad knowledge that can weigh in.
Brittany Laughlin: But for experts in specifics. We want to be able to have spots that people can can contribute in those
Brittany Laughlin: Those roles won't be like kept like won't be like only five technical people no more ever will be on this committee. It's like, it can be a little more fluid. I think so. And that's where the current like mindset is that
Lane Rettig: I think that's great. Yeah, I mean you'll you'll, you'll see in the sap process proposal that has been refined a bit now and got some feedback from Jude and some other folks that
Lane Rettig: We have the idea of, I think we sort of settled on working groups as terminology for it. But yeah, but different groups of experts and let's call it
Lane Rettig: What's it called in the UK.
Lane Rettig: Development of like aspects of governance to like local groups. I think it's a great idea.
Brittany Laughlin: Yeah, and of course that Jude.
Brittany Laughlin: Is moving up to the foundation, which is great. So he's
Brittany Laughlin: Gonna be helping you know
Brittany Laughlin: Like run the technical in the 70s. He's very excited and
Brittany Laughlin: does a lot of work in our forums. If you haven't interacted with yet it's it's pretty active
Jason Schrader: Yeah, it was really cool, actually, to watch that developer call the other day.
Jason Schrader: I think it was yesterday.
Jason Schrader: And I just wanted to chime in and say, I'm on the same page with that, you know, I really liked the idea of separation of powers and I like the idea of like having the different segments so that we get even representation across the board.
Jason Schrader: So there's definitely a lot of potential there and to the, to the point you made earlier. I think there's definitely some room for the same way we had a Community research observer.
Jason Schrader: To look at something like that, throughout the interview process just to keep the community involved with someone for that too. So everything sounding good over here.
Brittany Laughlin: Okay.
Brittany Laughlin: Um, yeah, I think that's
Brittany Laughlin: It for the update for the foundation so I see on our next look on the agenda, it's moving into action items and kicking off with community service. So I can hand that over
Lane Rettig: That works for me. If it works for Julia and everyone else. Are we good to move on to the next topic.
Juliet Oberding: I think that not hearing anything, anything else from any from other participants, we've had a great discussion on
Juliet Oberding: The board nominations and different ways of approaching the community. I loved everything that was discussed and really excited about the what Brittany raised about the teza so I
Juliet Oberding: Foundation really excited about seeing what we can do here. And I wonder, just before we move on. Are there any action items Britney that we'd like to put on our list for next week to discuss
Brittany Laughlin: Yeah, so I think this you know idea of like nominations is something that I would love to have as kind of an action item this week is maybe to
Brittany Laughlin: Talk through different ideas or different research and if you are interested in kind of being more involved in like that aspect. Maybe we can set up like separate time to to go deeper on that.
Brittany Laughlin: So,
Juliet Oberding: Yeah, I think that sounds fantastic. I would love to help out. If you're talking to me personally.
Brittany Laughlin: I would love to have you help. Yeah.
Juliet Oberding: But so that sounds good for the action items and and so I think we can then now move on to the next point and Lane, where you going to handle that with the Community Survey.
Lane Rettig: Yeah, let me start by dropping a couple of links here into the
Lane Rettig: Into the zoom call
Lane Rettig: So folks can kind of follow along can bear with me for just a sec. Well, I find them.
Lane Rettig: Okay, so the first thing I'm going to share is
Lane Rettig: directly out of type form. It is a report.
Lane Rettig: I guess itself speaks for itself. So there's the link for that that link should work for everyone. Let me know if it doesn't
Lane Rettig: And the second thing I'm going to share is something I wrote
Lane Rettig: So these are kind of some of my thoughts. This is sort of a preliminary report that I wrote about the survey.
Lane Rettig: I and there's there's a spreadsheet, but I'm not sure that that needs to be shared in this forum right now. It contains exactly the same thing as the first link, but just for our raw data format.
Lane Rettig: So let's see.
Lane Rettig: So, yeah. So just as a recap. I missed last week's call obviously but we kind of had consensus, two weeks ago that we should move forward with doing some analysis of the survey results and closing the survey to new responses.
Lane Rettig: That's something we should make a final call on this call, by the way. And if we do have consensus on closing off the survey new responses, I'll do that today.
Lane Rettig: Yeah, so we had 58 responses when I began this analysis about a week ago and funnily enough after three weeks of no responses we got a couple more in the past week. So I wonder where that came from.
Lane Rettig: But, so that's the word about 60
Lane Rettig: Maybe what I can do is just take about five minutes to very quickly walk through some of the, let's call them high level insights. So if you click on the second link if you haven't already that Google Docs link.
Lane Rettig: If you want to, you don't have to. I can just speak to these things, but I'm just quickly walk through a few interesting points. So we had
Lane Rettig: 23 countries responding, which I think is pretty amazing and really speaks to how international this community is but it was a very long tail of responses we had a lot from the United States and a lot from Chile, which again I think speaks to Philips.
Hardware so
Phillip Roe: Never, never knew that
Phillip Roe: There you go.
Phillip Roe: For Brittany. Well, it's a commitment of the people were about probably you know it's well yeah
Lane Rettig: I was just gonna say
Phillip Roe: I'm surprised.
Phillip Roe: Well, my team and answer, but my team is not so cute. So
Phillip Roe: It's five people six people but
Lane Rettig: I think we had something like
Lane Rettig: 14 responses, something like that from July, so it was 13 responses pretty big number. I was just saying, Brittany, I think we can barely make out chili on the map behind you there on your left, so we can
Celebrate
Lane Rettig: Cool.
Lane Rettig: Yeah, and then a very long tail, a lot of countries, I said there were there were
Lane Rettig: How many 23 total. So a lot of ones and twos, which is kind of cool.
Lane Rettig: Vast majority of responders around 90% are not in paid Roles that people who are kind of hobbyists are still learning, which I think is interesting. An interesting insight.
Lane Rettig: Many of you will have noticed
Lane Rettig: 92% of the people who responded, who are part of a project said that their projects are self funded, not, not necessarily exclusively self funded, but at least partially self funded 92%. It's a very high number. I thought that was very interesting.
Lane Rettig: And to me, that kind of suggests that there's a lot of potential here for doing things without mining and grants potentially
Lane Rettig: Most people who responded indicated that they want to get involved in governance and like one thing that jumped out at me was, they want to get involved in things like reviewing si P, which is interesting because that's a difficult thing to do. It's a highly technical thing.
Lane Rettig: 70% of respondents suggested they have a lack of understanding either about block stack or about its governance, or both. So I think that that also suggests that we have our work cut out for us, but it's a high potential group of people
Lane Rettig: Who might be excited and getting more involved in governance.
Lane Rettig: About half prefer plutocracy. Which is to say, sort of token voting over all other forms of governance, I found that very interesting. We could that's that rabbit hole we could explore
Lane Rettig: Most so the average level of understanding about there's okay there's a whole bucket of things here around PVC, which we can come back to. And I'm definitely curious to hear genuine Brittany's an
Lane Rettig: Impression of some of these things, but like one example of this is that the understanding of the mission of PVC was relatively low. It was about a three out of six, which kind of surprised me. That's kind of a moderate degree of understanding and there were other aspects here about
Lane Rettig: Transparency and the role that folks think that PVC should have relative to the foundation
Lane Rettig: And then the last thing I'll highlight right now is that 58% supported a form of tax or ecosystem fund to fund the Foundation and its work, which is what Z cash is doing.
Lane Rettig: And so that's that's really interesting that really surprised me because that's the kind of thing like no one in a theorem supports just just just one point of comparison.
Lane Rettig: So I'll stop with the insights there. There's a lot more in the documents that I shared
Lane Rettig: I guess what I would say is that
Lane Rettig: I don't know, help me out. Let me know what you all think next steps are here.
Lane Rettig: There's more I intend to add in that document the middle section things to consider. I tried to go back and cross reference the initial set of questions I had posted on the forum. When we kicked off the survey.
Lane Rettig: And so I want to try to respond to some of these questions and I could use everyone's help
Lane Rettig: You know with that as well. Um, and, and yeah, the results. I think this the the report I just shared here can be shared publicly, as far as I'm concerned, I don't. It doesn't contain any sensitive information.
Lane Rettig: I think we should share the raw results in the spreadsheet format as well. Will you know I've already removed the sensitive information like email address from that.
Lane Rettig: And leave it open to other folks to do their own analysis that's that's kind of where I'm at. I guess that the biggest question is, do people think we should end close the survey to new responses.
Lane Rettig: Or or let me rephrase the question. Does anyone think we should not close the survey to new responses.
Phillip Roe: I think that if we do, just another effort, you know, as, as we launch the foundation is that there's still some time to fill out the survey. So, then maybe you can get to five more. And so that also will will
Phillip Roe: Around then because of numbers, you know, it would be better because you will you suggested hundred but
Phillip Roe: Of course, it will be difficult to get that but pattern is, you know, you have another another effort in order to because of the foundation. This is a good excuse to call for attention.
Jason Schrader: I had two thoughts regarding the survey one. I think the uptick that you saw recently is that the survey was again featured in this weekend box that
Jason Schrader: So I think that was where probably those few extra responses came from, but given that we are trickling down to just getting a few at a time.
Jason Schrader: I almost feel like it's better to close this learn what we can from it and then maybe approach it a new way. If we wanted to learn new information, mainly because of that completion time
Jason Schrader: You know, to see people going about 35 30% completion rate 43 minutes average time to do it. That's, that's some pretty high numbers.
Jason Schrader: So I'd like to see some improvement there, but otherwise I'm I'm open to it and then looking at the responses to, you know, we talked about having
Jason Schrader: Towards the bottom and thoughts and analysis. He said, You know, we have a whole time 300,000 stacks token holders, but we did not reach a whole ton of them too. So I think that's an interesting question that we can look at and maybe find a better approach for
Jason Schrader: Agree, agree.
Lane Rettig: Thanks, Jason. Yeah. Um, I guess.
Lane Rettig: I'm agreeing with you. I think that like additional
Lane Rettig: Surveys fact finding is always a good idea, but I think we can be a lot more targeted in the future. I think we can isolate the specific things we want to learn about like this is a great starting point. We have a lot of fantastic raw material here.
Lane Rettig: But I think we could do more frequent shorter kind of five minute type
Lane Rettig: Surveys, maybe we could think about that and the marketing gears in my head, returning. I'm not really very good at marketing, but maybe folks who have more experience with with it customer analytics type stuff. We could do some of that.
Lane Rettig: And um yeah we the reaching out to the specs token holders is something that we had originally discussed
Lane Rettig: When we were launching this doing things like random sampling or something. I think there's a lot of potential there going forward.
Phillip Roe: What from what I see in them so resources.
Phillip Roe: It's Luke and do a lot of things with this.
Phillip Roe: Total it's wonderful material. Congratulations.
Phillip Roe: Yeah, we can do child's we can. There's so many things to do. So congratulations. This is
Phillip Roe: A wonderful way to start.
Lane Rettig: Thank you for sharing that Philip i i agree. I think everyone you know here as well as other people worked really hard to make this
Lane Rettig: Happen and I'm really, really pleased with the results. I think that there's a lot of insights here a lot that can be learned and garnered from these results.
Lane Rettig: And I think it's a great sort of very concrete initiative that this group can point to, as you know, this is the thing we did and it has a concrete impact and as a concrete you know report or something that we're publishing here.
Lane Rettig: I think we should definitely write
Lane Rettig: one or multiple blog posts about this. I'll defer to Jenny on the timing there, but I think that could be quite interesting as well. There are definitely some interesting unexpected insights here.
Lane Rettig: Also, I think the next block stack summit whenever we're ready to have another one in person should be in Chile, I just want to throw that out there.
Juliet Oberding: Me so I'm following up on on that I agree with
Juliet Oberding: Excuse me, I agree with Jason's proposal regarding
Juliet Oberding: Taking a look closing this down. Taking a look at the results we got. And then also following up on lanes proposal about the the
Juliet Oberding: writing the blog posts and perhaps Jenny, do you have any, anything you can add to that right now before we wrap this particular item up
Jenny Mith: Nothing immediately.
Jenny Mith: Comes to mind. I think that
Jenny Mith: Just sharing the insights themselves is pretty important. But I do think that in order to get
Jenny Mith: Good feedback. We should include some thoughtful insights. First, but I'll have to think about the best way to format it I think just showing the number of responses is impressive in and of itself. So I can follow up with an issue and get hope.
Juliet Oberding: Thanks, Jenny.
Juliet Oberding: So unless anyone else has a burning question or something. They need to add. I'm going to move on to the next action item, and that is the governance landing page if I'm on the right agenda.
Lane Rettig: Sorry, just just closing the loop here. So I am going to go ahead and close the survey to new responses fill up your, your point is noted, I think we can definitely discuss
Lane Rettig: How to do additional surveys, going forward, but this this is sorry this is just an important action item that I think we need to reach a consensus on. Is everyone okay with that.
Juliet Oberding: Yes, Emily.
Lane Rettig: Thank you so much.
Jason Schrader: Yes. For me as well.
Lane Rettig: And right so landing pages is next. Um,
Lane Rettig: Do you want to speak to that Jason or anyone else. I'm happy to try to, but go ahead. If you want to
Jason Schrader: Sure. So one thing we've done is we've compiled a ton of resources.
Jason Schrader: You know, in all of this started. We were all asking some very broad level questions of what is governance, what do we want to model ourselves after
Jason Schrader: And we have a ton of links sitting in the resources repo and while we sort of restructured that to make it a little easier to consume.
Jason Schrader: There's definitely a lot more that can be done. So this idea is issue number 45 and the project management repository.
Jason Schrader: And we talked about just having some kind of landing page or way for people to easily have an easier way to digest. A lot of these resources.
Jason Schrader: And there's also an issue, I believe, is number 33 and here as well where I've been collecting resources from discord and other outlets to add in addition to what we have
Jason Schrader: And I felt the same kind of thing we need a better level of organization. So I think that now that we have the foundation. Now that we have stacks.org
Jason Schrader: There's definitely some potential to use that as a tool to direct people to information faster.
Jason Schrader: My recommendation is always thinking of the verbs. You know, if somebody wants to do A, B, or C. They have a quick way to say, oh, boom, I land on the right page. I see a list of resources, I can read what I want
Jason Schrader: Another idea I had that I proposed in what I think issue 33 was to
Jason Schrader: sort of summarize some of the articles or find a way to highlight the key content that we liked from each one so it's more than just a link to a gigantic document.
Jason Schrader: And gives people kind of a high level view that they could dig further into
Jason Schrader: But obviously, that takes a lot more time and work as well. So that's something that we'll have to look at as a group and everything like that.
Jason Schrader: But I think the the other big thing that I saw that really is a call to action on this landing page was in the survey results.
Jason Schrader: If we look at it was there in the type form link if we look at how people are interacting with and learning information.
Jason Schrader: GitHub was down kind of like number six or seven on that list. And rather than trying to force people into GitHub. I just want to make it a better relationship between the two.
Jason Schrader: And I think there's definitely some room to do that with a landing page as the main engine. So that's the, that's the high level kind of summary of the issue that I could give for everyone here and I'm curious what others think for sure.
Phillip Roe: Yes, it's, I think that the challenge information is quite challenging and and then the
Phillip Roe: The website is always something that the people feel like it's more official but then
Phillip Roe: How you
Phillip Roe: How you interact, how the network grows and also different opinions, you know, comes up in a
Phillip Roe: Different way, but it's not official but it's it's part of the community so
Phillip Roe: It's something that we still have to
Phillip Roe: Think about how to integrate all that stuff. We are not the only ones that have that problem. So,
Juliet Oberding: Yeah, Jason i i agree with your, your points about having a friendly place where people can land that they can easily find those resources.
Juliet Oberding: I think the GitHub is actually pretty fantastic. But I think there could be another landing page as you're calling it where
Juliet Oberding: They can, you know, find those things easily I particularly love the idea of having summaries of some of the key articles so people don't have to. They get the you know the high level the gist of it.
Juliet Oberding: So those are some of my thoughts. Is anyone else have some some thoughts about this, and perhaps some action items that we can put forth for the next meeting.
Lane Rettig: I agree with everything that's been shared. I just wanted to very, very briefly jump in and share my motivation for this.
Lane Rettig: I think that like governance is hard because it's very intimidating to a lot of people, even just the word governance, you know, they hear it and they cringe. And they kind of
Lane Rettig: What they're visualizing is not fun or exciting. And I think to some extent you saw that in the survey results as well, where were folks said that they, you know, felt that they didn't
Lane Rettig: Have enough understanding of governance or blocks governance. So I guess my motivation is like, think of it in product terms, how do we
Lane Rettig: Make into into something that is approachable to people and legible to people and make sense and it feels like something they want to get involved in and
Lane Rettig: You know, landing page is a powerful tool if it's well organized and people can you know immediately feel that they have access to the resources they need and the call to action. It's clear that that's my motivation.
Juliet Oberding: So when you when you bring that up. That makes me think of having customer interviews and really understanding what the users needs are and and do we have an understanding do has the survey, giving us an understanding of what are
Juliet Oberding: What the users needs are with respect to a landing page and and what what problems are they finding from GitHub, because we saw one point that that you mentioned was that they are Jason mentioned was that that was not the first place they thought of going
Juliet Oberding: So maybe there's room for Mini
Juliet Oberding: Mini survey on this or maybe there's some room for talking with community on this. What are anyone else's thoughts about finding out
Juliet Oberding: From a user centered approach. You know how we should structure a landing page or I'm on making it way too complicated.
Lane Rettig: Um, something that I had meant to share as part of the survey results. I think this is a good time to share it.
Lane Rettig: And discuss this with some of you, right, is that we have something most people who filled out the survey gave us an email address so we have something like
Lane Rettig: 30 4050 email addresses of people who were motivated enough to fill out the survey are clearly interested in governance. But obviously, most of them have not been active so far because we've only had about 10 people active
Lane Rettig: So that's a great group of potential users we have their contact info, we should do something with it. Maybe we should try speaking to them. I'll leave that as an open question like what we should do with that. But that's one potential answer to your question, Julia.
Jenny Mith: Yeah, I would agree with lean on that. And I also wanted to share that we've had some success with these user
Jenny Mith: Interviews with the dev X team and in. It's not like like they're large groups or anything, but it's super insightful to chat to pat 15 minutes with someone in the community to talk over
Jenny Mith: Whether the Explorer is accessible, whether it looks good. You know what changes.
Jenny Mith: We can make. And I think is the governance group, especially for block sacca a good habit that we can get into is just testing things that we want to try. Obviously, we're always going to
Jenny Mith: Face the the obstacle or challenge of of not having participation or enough participation and we're always going to want more folks.
Jenny Mith: To join. But I do think that. And the more that we do that. And the more that we engage, especially with that list of survey respondents that lane has mentioned, and the more participation, we will get over time and. And so if we have ideas for landing page or if we have
Jenny Mith: Even an outline that we want to run by someone and it wouldn't hurt to have like a five minute interview.
Jenny Mith: And to get into that habit and to be really public about that too and say, you know, we had interviews with
Jenny Mith: Five people last week, who said that they wanted to do this and you know if there's no there no objections. We're, we're going to experiment with with doing that.
Jenny Mith: Does anyone else have objections, at this point, and I know I talked to a lot of you about this, but
Jenny Mith: folks don't really have strong opinions until it seems like something is going to be decided. And then they start chiming in. So I think that's a great way to get started and get people motivated to give their input.
Jason Schrader: Really and and on that line of thinking, I think.
Jason Schrader: One of the best things we can do is just leave room for that.
Jason Schrader: Input, right, because if we offer people the chance to at least voice those opinions and they weren't voiced throughout the process or not until the end, it gives us a better picture.
Jason Schrader: And the other thing I wanted to share. I mentioned that type form result. So the primary read what are your primary resources for learning about the box that platform and community.
Jason Schrader: Really came back down to discord the blocks that blog, the blog stack forum and technical articles.
Jason Schrader: So I think there's definitely some room there to make sure we're using our outlets.
Jason Schrader: as efficiently as possible. So, you know, being able to have a central landing page on stacks.org would be excellent in my opinion.
Jason Schrader: And I think we just didn't have that ability before, right, like the stacks of organization on GitHub was designed to be a little bit of that independent house for information.
Jason Schrader: From block stack. And now we have the foundation that can do the same. So I think it's just pieces that are coming together now.
Phillip Roe: Agree on that and that essentially
Phillip Roe: That the reality of the of the informations been very spread out and so do yes to make an effort to summarize and put things together on that it will be difficult.
Phillip Roe: The, the reality is, is we have to look for ways of like an index of of information or pointers. Because right now, for example, my personal challenges I have
Phillip Roe: Five or six different consoles in order to to have different subjects in this console and then have a way to concentrate because there's so much information.
Phillip Roe: In. So then in each aspect, you know, governance has second soul, and then the starting in the Old Testament has another one and and and then my my project has
Phillip Roe: My email has another one. And then the discord has another one because you know this code has pointers to do different things so
Phillip Roe: In the sense of, that's the reality of what we are facing, but not only we are the blocks of the community is is every, every aspect of our life.
Phillip Roe: Yeah, having that but especially because we are in quarantine. So you know how we organize on that something that we can come up with something that will will
Phillip Roe: Be a good example then with this information, we can try to to reorganize so they want you to make it easier for everybody to to interact and have feedback on all that
Phillip Roe: I want to also separate their official
Phillip Roe: Because their official is something that will always have to be like Britain Britain. He speaks official
Phillip Roe: But then, then all the opinions, you know, our opinions, but we have to be clear that his opinions, you see. And so how you you you you encourage opinions in and then don't mix it to the official decision of the organization or the board or whatever, it comes up.
Brittany Laughlin: Yeah, I definitely echo your point.
Brittany Laughlin: Of just, there's a lot of places. And they all have different kind of purposes and, you know, GitHub feels a little more formal than discord and you know the forum is more conversational, and so yeah i i agree with you. I don't know if there's a solution, but
Brittany Laughlin: I think trying to be mindful of that, when we're making sort of decisions on where to put information or where they have these conversations is spot on.
Lane Rettig: I have a concrete proposal for concrete next steps that again circling back to what Julian had said. And again, I'm broken record here, but this is something that worked well in a theory.
Lane Rettig: That there wasn't a theory and.org website that for a long time was run by the Ethereum foundation with basically no community input and that annoyed people a lot because they felt that that should be a community property.
Lane Rettig: And eventually, it changed about a year, year and a half ago. It's now a community page and there is a GitHub repository that anyone can submit a pull request or an issue to
Lane Rettig: And so we're, you know, as a group, we've become pretty comfortable pretty familiar with GitHub. So I'm going to propose.
Lane Rettig: And I guess this the ball would be in Brittany's court here, but that there'd be something like a stack.gov slash governance page that would be linked to a GitHub repository that anyone in the community.
Lane Rettig: Could as I said not not not merge into, but could submit a pull request or an issue too and that some small number of people have merge access to and those changes would basically go live immediately on a governor
Lane Rettig: On a sort of official governance landing page. So just as a concrete project.
Brittany Laughlin: Okay. Yeah, I think that's a great idea.
Lane Rettig: I think as wonderful as our GitHub repository and PM repositories are sorry resources repository PM, etc.
Lane Rettig: A web page will always be more accessible to more people than a GitHub repository or we need markdown file will be so
Phillip Roe: Additional have done a very good job and compiling and linking all the resources, so that's that's very valuable. And you know, that's a lot of work.
Phillip Roe: But that can be
Phillip Roe: migrated to any place anyways.
Brittany Laughlin: Yeah, I see a couple people have to jump here, so I know no one wanted to
Brittany Laughlin: Interrupt I actually have to jump to you. And was there any, any last things we needed to cover last minute here.
Lane Rettig: The last agenda item.
Lane Rettig: Is the sap process proposal. Yeah, we have, like, a minute or two. I don't know if we want to discuss that now or wait till the next call
Jason Schrader: I guess the biggest question is, do you have a main asked for us. Aside from continuing to review the document or is there any other direct action item we can handle really quick. Otherwise, we could probably delay it till next week.
Lane Rettig: I'm going to pass the ball to Brittany here because I think it's in the Foundation's wheelhouse, like what the next steps are with respect to SI P proposal Brittany's that's something that's on the table. Now, or is that one of the Q3 things you'd mentioned
Brittany Laughlin: Um, so the
Brittany Laughlin: Is like editing it and making sure that it exists. So the SI P proposal is very important for stacks to point out to actually launch and to get accepted by miners.
Brittany Laughlin: And so, internally, there's been engineers who've weighed in on the process, including dude has been very vocal Jude is going to
Brittany Laughlin: Kind of, you know, shepherd, a little more of that process. And so I think what we'll end up with, or just I actually was just pinging him this morning about, you know, where will that live like is it a GitHub.
Brittany Laughlin: You know, dry like final draft or, you know, sort of working draft that that those new ADDITIONAL COMMENTS get included in and we can publish
Brittany Laughlin: It there and or is it still, you know, are there things he wants to discuss in the forum first before kind of moving into like the GitHub land. So yeah, my action item is just to take away and hopefully Jude can give an update.
Brittany Laughlin: On either next week's call or just a written update and discord channel.
Brittany Laughlin: All right, right at 8am Pacific time right at 8am so perfectly on time.
Jason Schrader: Perfect, yeah, so that that takes care of all of our action items.
Jason Schrader: Just for the idea of being consistent. I'm going to go ahead and list off all the open discussion items but a big thank you to everyone who is able to make it. I know a few people have to jump but we appreciate everybody being here.
Jason Schrader: So some of the items that we carry over from last week include the
Lane Rettig: I'm sorry to interrupt. I think this is my mistake. I feel like we missed the blog post action item, and I think Jenny had to run. So maybe that
Lane Rettig: Also needs to go on this list here at the end of the call things to discuss next week. Sorry about the interruption. I just want to make sure we don't miss that.
Jason Schrader: Sure. Definitely. And I know you know we spoke to it a little bit in the stand up so we did get a little bit of information on the
Jason Schrader: On the blog post update. I think our biggest takeaway from this meeting this week is that she's Birkin heavy rough draft for us by either Friday or Monday.
Jason Schrader: So what I mean, I think, really, we just need to get the first one out will feel a lot better. But it's, of course, the first one is the hardest one as well. So as we're
Jason Schrader: Going through that will be looking for a way to provide feedback and get it on that one. The
Jason Schrader: issue as far as the agenda is concerned with the blog post. We did try to link in some of the older topics as well, like we had issue number 11 was a list of questions about the foundation from column number three.
Jason Schrader: And looking way way back then, we've actually answered a lot of these questions and I think they generated some fun discussion. So that's why that one was on the list and then number 43
Jason Schrader: That's listed there as well, was deciding on the first two to three topics for the series.
Jason Schrader: So that's where we'll see what the first draft entailed, but during last week's call we reached a general consensus that those two to three topics were a good place to start. So I think we're pretty well set on that, but it will definitely carry over into the next week.
Jason Schrader: And I'll leave it open for a second. In case anybody had any thoughts on that.
Jason Schrader: Alright.
Jason Schrader: So the open discussion items. I feel like
Jason Schrader: You know, with our small group today and being that we ran up to, to our time limit. Now, I don't think we're going to get really deep into these, but I did want to mention them since they're on the agenda. So I'm just going to rattle off each one
Jason Schrader: Once I'm done rattling them all off. If we do have any comments or anything. People want to include now we can do so. Otherwise, I think we'll just kind of work towards the end of this week's call
Jason Schrader: So the open discussion items I have on the list, we talked about the Community research observer role from issue number 17 and we're
Jason Schrader: Kind of out of that research phase, but we wanted to keep the idea open and keep it in mind as we're going through this process or anything else towards making this an official thing.
Jason Schrader: And I think there's definitely some room to tie that into the thought of the proposed board members or, you know, doing some sort of community involvement for that selection as well.
Jason Schrader: So I can see those things tying together the code of conduct was one that we talked about a little ways back and I think that is
Jason Schrader: Also in the works. So the code of conduct was in the proposals repository for issue number 11
Jason Schrader: Then we had another topic on languages and translation which is mainly just keeping our awareness that as we work with an international community, we want to try and provide content in as many formats as possible so that we can have as much involvement as possible.
Jason Schrader: We had
Lane Rettig: A sense from a survey. Now what languages at least a subset of the Community speaks and we know that we need more stuff in Spanish.
Jason Schrader: Yeah, definitely. And big thank you to fill up to. I mean, I was shocked as well to see Chile really throw throw up some big numbers up there.
Jason Schrader: And come through and we know that that effort comes a lot from what you've done in promoted out there so excellent job with that as well.
Jason Schrader: And then the last two items we had the shared resources, issue number 33 and this was talking about as we form the foundation. We want to share a zoom account. We want to figure out the best way to share YouTube
Jason Schrader: And also looking at if we can share box back resources as well. So sort of some open questions there, but definitely feel free to comment as
Jason Schrader: On the issue as we're going through. And then finally, just looking at the founding documents. Again, which touches a little bit on that code of conduct idea.
Jason Schrader: And that was in proposals, issue number nine. So those are some of our open discussion items that will roll over to next week. If we have any final comments on those please feel free to share. Otherwise, I'll give it a minute or so and then we'll look at closing out the call for today.
Lane Rettig: Super quick question to Brittany, we had talked about doing like like micro grants early on from the foundation to cover some things like Chevy sources. Any thoughts on on that on how long that process may take
Brittany Laughlin: Yeah, I think that we can do that, I think, like with things like zoom and either some paid accounts and those are, I think, in the short term, probably fastest is for me to to set up foundation accounts for those and then be able to
Brittany Laughlin: Pay for them through the Foundation's almost
Brittany Laughlin: As like a business expense. I think the issuing of like micro-grants is something that we
Brittany Laughlin: I want to have sort of a process for and it may actually get more complicated if it's under like $100 or something like that because of reimbursement and tax and 1099 and things like that. So I think the immediate solution is probably foundation setup administration and then
Brittany Laughlin: Yeah, in it. But if there's things that are kind of larger than that, that amount or don't make sense for that, then that's where I think
Brittany Laughlin: We can kind of propose them and then figure out what the best way forward is from
Brittany Laughlin: Again and i think i think i have this and channels with
Brittany Laughlin: Jason and Lane, because I know you guys have some ownership rights in
Brittany Laughlin: Like GitHub and YouTube. So if you would be open to adding me with my stacks foundation email so brittany@saks.org, that would be great.
Lane Rettig: Is that a is that a Google linked account. Can I add that directly to YouTube, as it. Okay, great.
Lane Rettig: Thanks.
Jason Schrader: Alright. Well, on that note, I think we're going to be ending today's call. So just a quick update next week's call will be on June 3 we're actually going to be in June here right around the corner and that's crazy to me, but that's all right.
Jason Schrader: And thank you again for everybody being here. I appreciate everybody and the thoughts definitely look to get hub for issues resources places to comment.
Jason Schrader: And if there's any other feedback, you know, we're always listening. We have our channel and discord as well. So thank you everybody. Especially those who watch the recording after the fact and have a great week.
Thanks.
Phillip Roe: Thanks. Have a good week. Take care. Bye bye.
