# 20200429 Governance Working Group Call 10

Juliet (@joberding) is moderating today.

Juliet Oberding: Okay, wonderful. Thank you. Lane. So today's working group call it is April 29, 2020. We have a agenda that is up on GitHub. If one of you can put that in the chat. That would be great.

## Agenda

https://github.com/stacksgov/pm/issues/35

Juliet Oberding: Hello and good morning everyone. Let me know if you can hear me clearly, or it's a little muffled there anything. Great to see everyone. So let's just get to the agenda and as we do the usual stand up and find out what happened over the past week.

## Standup!

### Juliet Oberding

Juliet Oberding: I'll go first. So after last week's working group call we have an evangelist call and I talked about the status of the governance working group, and particularly emphasized the survey and where we were with the survey and encouraged the evangelists to promote the survey to their respective communities and and also I wrote a post on the forum about the survey.

Juliet's forum post for the survey: https://forum.blockstack.org/t/participate-in-blockstack-governance-take-the-stacks-governance-survey/10742

Juliet Oberding: And again, just urging people to respond to the survey and giving a deadline of may 1 to say we can try to get to 100 results. So that is my stand up from last week, who'd like to go next.

### Kieran Alexis

Kieran Alexis: I can go next.

Juliet Oberding: Wonderful. Good morning!

Kieran Alexis: Okay, so I posted the survey in a couple of places don't know if I got any reactions back but I started a keynote presentation just to marshall all of these kind of floating ideas about governance, to kind of try and develop my own ideas.

Kieran Alexis: As well as trying to you know, break down the sort of complex ideas that are very current out there. So I have done a blog post on dpage sort of outlining as a side note to sort of Lane's stuff and the stuff that's on the GitHub is a way for me to just percolate ongoing stuff and then I'm folding that into.

Kieran's dpage: https://kieranalexis.dpage.io/blockstack-governance-wg-side-notes

Kieran Alexis: Like a keynote slides thing. See if I can come out with some coherence stuff. And I've joined nakamoto.com, have started a new publication, it's quite interesting. I've just sort of joined them, hoping to maybe write on there and perhaps talk about blockstack on there, maybe, maybe about governance, it's kind of that kind of place that people would be actively thinking about this sort of thing.

Kieran's nakamoto link:	https://nakamoto.substack.com/

Kieran Alexis: Yeah, busy with the tesetnet otherwise, so yeah, so that's it.

Juliet Oberding: Wonderful. I definitely agree with the idea of having places to think out governance, to write posts or essays about it and I really, I took a look at your dpage. And I thought you did a great job.

Juliet Oberding: I really liked all the stuff you're included, and when I go back in and read some more.

Kieran Alexis: Thanks, that's the idea to try and just get it on a smorgasbord and try and hammer into a kind of place where we can really see what's what's what, you know?

Juliet Oberding: Very good.

Lane Rettig: I went on a second that. Good morning, good afternoon. Young, I want to second, which Juliet just said, thank you, Kieran, I also took some time to read through the notes that you've compiled found it really useful.

Lane Rettig: And again, I just want to re-emphasize like it's so perfectly in line with the decentralization and permissionless-ness ethos here, which is like jump in and start contributing. It's kind of a duocracy and I think that you're like an awesome example of that. So thank you again for that contribution.

### Lane Rettig

Lane Rettig: Yeah, I don't have any blockstack specific updates for the past week. But on the same topic of writing. I just wanted to share that I set myself a challenge of trying to publish one personal / quasi professional blog posts a week. I won't say all year, but as long as I possibly can. And I've been writing a lot about more about governance stuff. And I'll share some of those things with this group, and I'd love to hear. Yeah, critical feedback. Thanks everybody.

Juliet Oberding: Thanks lane we looking forward to reading those because I think we've all really enjoyed the work that you did previously on governance.

Juliet Oberding: Anyone next?

Lane Rettig: I'm going to turn turn off my video while I finished breakfast that I'll be back in a few minutes.

Juliet Oberding: Anyone next for the stand up.

### Jason Schrader

Jason Schrader: Sure I'll jump in for a quick one, kind of the same thing, things have been quiet on my end. But at the same time, we are still making progress on GitHub.

Jason Schrader: That's probably the biggest area that I keep coming back to, and I've been trying to catch up the older canonical notes from, like meeting three meeting two meeting one, and it's a little bit of what I talked about last week.

Jason Schrader: Where I'm finding things in these older notes and older issues that we've created that's been really fun to look back through and everything like that. So hopefully by next week or so we'll have things kind of cleaned up and the other cool thing that that's come out of that as I found some other issues that we've talked about and we kind of got in progress, but then we never finalized like a decision or an action on so we'll bring some of those up in the call today. But other than that, no blockers on my end and things are good.

Juliet Oberding: Thank you, Jason.

Juliet Oberding: Yeah, I completely agree on the taking a look at things and seeing new information.

Juliet Oberding: And I know you're talking about in reference to github and and keeping everything working and moving forward. But I always, when I look into all the work that's been done, I find things that either. I didn't see before or I think of it if it in a different way now.

Jason Schrader: Totally. And what I'm seeing is, we have done so much like we had talked about earlier, too, and I really liked the idea of trying to get some of these either concrete accomplishments or just kind of cool facts or resources that have come out into it into a regular blog post type deal. So that's going to be one of the other things I really want to look at is what would be good little chunks to start publishing, so I'm looking forward to that too.

Brittany Laughlin: That's awesome.

### Brittany Laughlin

Brittany Laughlin: So it's Brittany. I'll do a quick update I know we'll get into the Foundation in a little bit but, yeah, I've been thinking about, I've been sharing internally with the blockstack PBC team around what the Governance Working Group has been working on.

Brittany Laughlin: And they were all very excited about, you know, all of the work that's been done and and kind of the number of people here who are involved. So, just been sharing as we go. So a blog post, like that, I'm happy to work with you on that Jason.

Brittany Laughlin: Because I think I've been doing the same thing kind of looking back, like, where did we start. And what did we expect them, and where are we today. And I'm going to just kind of a stand up of things that happened last week. Is that the testnet went live for blockstack which is not directly impacting the governance group, but I think we're moving towards getting more people into the blockstack ecosystem and trying it out and more developers are excited about it.

Brittany Laughlin: So it just creates a new group of people, maybe that may join because they're interested in governance as well. So I think that that's something to see it's just like, how do we get more people excited and brought in. Like, Kieran, I know that you've done a lot of work since you've kind of gotten involved in the group. And that was, you know, maybe a week or two ago. So I think.

Kieran Alexis: Oh, yeah.

Brittany Laughlin: Pulling more people in like that. Maybe we'll have some more people join. So just looking out for newcomers and discord and finding other people who maybe have different perspectives too. So that's my update.

Juliet Oberding: Thank you. Brittany.

Juliet Oberding: Do we have anyone else who wants to?

### Phillip Roe

Phillip Roe: Good morning. Yeah, it's been a Britney said, you know, very active week, even though the testnet was launched and that also brings everything meaningful. You know why we had to work on the governance, you know, because that's something that we will have to understand how to apply that and which are the consequences that will bring the the stacks blockchain.

Phillip Roe: And one of the questions that was asked. I was asked if this the issuing of stacks, is it has a limit. And so then I didn't have that answer, but probably the way. That's one. One of the things that governance has also to do and how you, the minting of new coins, but probably already answered, but those are things that sometimes you don't have to do.

Phillip Roe: And so that's been very active week in all senses, of course, governance and I guess reading and also Kieran thank you very much for your comlilation, you know, it's always useful.

Phillip Roe: I think that that is a good attitude to have it that we should have because we come across with a lot of information and then suddenly, you know, just you put something here, put something there. But you you compile sometimes better resources better and more practical.

Juliet Oberding: I wonder if any new people would like to say hello and introduce themselves.

Juliet Oberding: Alright. Well, we can go back to the agenda. Is there any other stand ups for this this week?

Juliet Oberding: So the next item on the agenda is

Juliet Oberding: Hi, Matt, I see that you're not in a good position to call. Thank you for letting us know, or good position to talk. Thank you.

Juliet Oberding: So the next point on the agenda is the Community Survey.

## Community survey

Juliet Oberding: And apparently we have 52 total responses, now, and it went out with the quarterly newsletter a few days ago. I posted a forum post and the question is next steps. Is there any ideas, thoughts, anybody wants to discuss next steps for the Community Survey.

Jason Schrader: Alright, so

Phillip Roe: Let let us see probably in one week more, we should a process that. This is going to be another activity of promotion this, tomorrow, I think, in two countries. And so then let's have a deadline, maybe for next week at end of month.

Juliet Oberding: That dovetails with what's coming up. So I see Lane and both Lane and Jason had something to add to this topic.

Lane Rettig: I'm unmuted. So I'm going to just jump in quickly. I just wanted to share that Jenny sent her apologies she wouldn't be able to make the call today but you did mention as everyone here is aware of that the survey link was shared in the newsletter.

Lane Rettig: And she was expecting a probably a few more responses that we got it did, it did take up which is good. And she also had mentioned that we may want to think about doing like a quote unquote survey sprint and kind of focusing more efforts on various channels to try to get more responses, and I think she has some ideas about how we might do that.

Lane Rettig: But I'm yeah personally I am perfectly okay if we want to wait one more week with the one caveat that we had this sort of soft deadline that the end of the month, which obviously is coming up in a couple days. But yeah, just want to share those thoughts. Thanks.

Juliet Oberding: Yeah, I think may 1st is definitely a good, a good soft deadline. Because I think that day is important for many other reasons, but I put that in the in the post that I did requesting that people respond to the survey. And I don't know if we want to do something different, or take a look at what we have, at that point, or make some decisions, but I'll also reach out to to Jenny as well and and hear what she has to say.

Jason Schrader: Excellent my part was just that I dropped a link in the chat to the original issue that we opened around this and it keeps coming back to those same questions. Is there a threshold where we want to look at the data, what do we want to do with the data and how do we want to look at it. So I think we can start game planning some of that, but I'm okay with the the extra week's time as well.

Issue and thoughts around what to do with the survey: https://github.com/stacksgov/pm/issues/1

Juliet Oberding: Yeah, I agree with that, Jason, about the taking a look at what we want to do next. Based on the link that you dropped in

Juliet Oberding: So I think that we, and I'm open. Everyone is is welcome to jump in here and share their thoughts about what we should be doing next on the survey or if we should wait a little longer wait till next week and then parse it out then.

Kieran Alexis: When will the goals of the survey have been met? Open question.

Juliet Oberding: I think that one soft goal that may have been bandied about and discussed among this group as well as the evangelist was to get to a minimum of 100. TSo that's one goal, but the goals being met, is really about the survey, as you know, and everyone in this group knows is about learning more about the community and identifying the community's needs and their thoughts and who they are, their roles, and all of that in relevance to governance.

Juliet Oberding: So I'm not hearing anymore ideas and unless Kieran, you have something more to share. I'm not saying anything more. And we might move on to the next point on the agenda.

Juliet Oberding: Is that OK with everyone?

Juliet Oberding: Okay see thumbs up from Kieran and there are some smiling faces.

Brittany Laughlin: Saw a bunch of thumbs up.

Juliet Oberding: Okay. All right. Well, moving on then. Thank you. Brittany and I when I'm looking at this on my tiny little screen on the phone. It's hard to see everything.

Juliet Oberding: Um, let's see. So.

Lane Rettig: Wow, Juliet, you're, you're already a hero for hosting this meeting and you're even more of a hero for doing it on a phone that's that's really impressive.

Juliet Oberding: Yeah, I need to reset up my setup on my desktop. So that's the, that's the reason for the phone. It's just easy

Juliet Oberding: So looking to the next point, there is the blog post outline.

## Blog post outline

Juliet Oberding: Jason. I don't know if you wanted to talk a little bit about this, you had a note about the project board and issue label and commenting on Number 26, the issue 26, would you like to say anything about the blog post outline that we discussed with Jenny last week and the week before I believe.

Jason Schrader: Helps if I use the right keyboard. There we go. I'm in between machines, too. So I completely understand that. And yeah, so for me, the basic call to action is the same as before. We're really just looking for some written content based on past accomplishments and things that we've done.

Jason Schrader: The method that we've set up to do this is a GitHub project board that lives in the project management repository, and I can drop a link to that.

Blog post project board: https://github.com/stacksgov/pm/projects/2

Jason Schrader: And we have a basic system. This came up earlier where, whatever we want to do whatever topic we want to talk about or if you want to contribute anything outside of the issues that Jenny already created definitely create an issue on GitHub. We get a little sidetracked in the sense that the word issue is, is kind of a weird one in GitHub, but we can we can use an issue for anything, it's basically a placeholder for a thought or an idea or something we want to track like a document. So just a quick note on that, but the the real call to action is what what do we want to write? what do we want to share about what we've done?

Juliet Oberding: And I would like to just add to what Jason said was that we're all, everyone is welcome to add to this blog post, everyone who has some thoughts about contributing to it is able to go and github and add to issue 26.

Juliet Oberding: Because I think that's how it's setup, isn't it, through the issue is that where we're making our blog posts or at least our notes on blog posts.

Jason Schrader: Actually, yeah. So what we've done is we created. So we have the board and we have a label for blog posts that I will use to track multiple issues. So if we have different topics or items or things to write about it might be easier to break those into pieces.

Jason Schrader: But any, anything is welcomed. Honestly, you know, a comment to an issue or a new issue or anything like that. If it needs to be rearranged at all, I'm happy to help with that on the back end, I'm more curious to get the content.

Juliet Oberding: So then, so anyone who's interested. And I know that I'll be making some, I have an ongoing post that has been sitting in my document, my Google Doc of basically, giving an overview to something I think that we've maybe on the list. But no, I don't see it's there.

Juliet Oberding: So just a just a blog post that overviews where we've been and where we're going and what we've done and and also addressing some of those questions that were raised back in March and seeing that those questions have been answered. So that's some of the things that I'm going to add, I know that a number of people mentioned during the stand up that there, they will be adding or interested in adding to the blog post I think Brittany also mentioned that.

Juliet Oberding: So anyone else. Anything else for the blog post?

Juliet Oberding: Alright, not hearing any responses. And I'm not looking to see any thumbs up or thumbs down. We'll move on to the next post that I believe Jason added from issue number 17 which is the community observer role for a blockstack PBC research calls.

## Community observer role for Blockstack PBC research calls (#17)

Juliet Oberding: Jason, did you want to talk about this particular issue. I know it was raised by Dan and I know that Terje wanted to see a formal statement on the GitHub about the role. Do you mind addressing this Jason?

Jason Schrader: Sure. So again, as I'm going back through the older issues and things I'm looking for items that we can close or finish out, and this one, when we looked a little closer at it, we had confirmation that we could have you as an observer, but I don't think we put any kind of official record or we don't know if you've been able to join any calls. So with some of those open questions, I just wanted to bring it up again.

Jason Schrader: And see how we can either fit this into maybe the one of the first SIP things that we do, or see how it fits in an official capacity for for what we're trying to complete here. And for that part, I guess the, do you have anything you can share on on this one, Brittany, like if we're, earlier on, when we first started discussing this. I know it was difficult because some of the talks were around like taxes and finances and things that were sensitive to PBC.

Jason Schrader: But now that we're getting closer to the MVP status, do we still have room to have Juliet as a community observer? How would that look on your side of things?

Brittany Laughlin: Yeah, definitely. And I think from when we determined that till now we actually have not, I have not had very many research calls, because it has been where the talking with Deloitte around taxes. So now that that's in progress and some other members of my team are taking that over. I hope to have more conversation in the community and I will make sure to include Juliet, but it was kind of like a lot of the research was done and then we're like, oh, this would be great and but I haven't really had as many calls but now that we're moving things over, there'll be a lot more time for that. And I would love to have Juliet as an observer.

Jason Schrader: Excellent. I guess action items to kind of look at related to this issue. How do we make that official, is the big question, and I don't know if Brittany or Lane. If you have any input. I know we were talking a little bit about a SIP process like what, what do we think it would take to make this official and on record?

Brittany Laughlin: Yeah, I mean, I think we can informally make it on record, either like github or one of our, in the forum because I don't think that there's anywhere that like "official" sort of exists. So maybe the commitment this year to this community and this call and making that as such. But if you if you guys have other ideas on how to recognize that, or at least let others in the community knows so that if they have questions, they can reach out to Juliet or one of the other people on this group I'm open to that.

Lane Rettig: Something that we started doing about a year ago in your community and as part of the regular governance calls for Ethereum is exactly this, is identifying specific action items at the end of each of these calls and just highlighting them. So in the notes at the very, very top of the notes. There's a list of action items from this call and then each call kicks off with a review of action items from the previous call so I don't know how like project management-y that we want these calls to be as i think i think it's generally a very good idea to record action items, but it can also feel a little bit stifling sometimes to have like long lists of things to go over at the start of each call, but I will go ahead and open a meta issue on GitHub and throw in an example we can kind of get the ball rolling with the discussion there.

Jason Schrader: All right. Excellent. So I think from my side of things, we will just keep this issue open for the time being, and then we should probably find some sort of process to where Juliet. If you do join a research call then maybe you make a note in the issue or, you know, we'll have some way to kind of record or share that process as well. But hey, we're learning that's that's the early stages. I like it.

Juliet Oberding: Well, thank you, Jason for going over that particular issue.

Juliet Oberding: I think that it sounds, that all sounds like great ways to handle this and thank you Lane for offering to open up another issue and perhaps some statement. I think that to what Brittany said, perhaps some statement on GitHub. If that's what was referred to one of the previous comments is all that needs to be done, but we can mull this over for until next week and then either close it out or do what other steps are determined by everyone in the working group. By consensus.

Juliet Oberding: Any other thoughts?

Kieran Alexis: I have just a question about something the translation into Spanish we talked about last week, we didn't get any further?

Juliet Oberding: We can talk about that as we go forward, Kieran, we have a, if you're looking at the agenda, we have a couple of things before that. So we'll get to that at the end on any other updates and topics, if you don't mind, delaying that for later.

Juliet Oberding: Alright, so the next thing after the community observer role issue is the code of conduct.

## Code of Conduct (blockstack/stacks-blockchain#1436), governance "due process" in general

Juliet Oberding: This is something we discussed last week. With respect to the code of conduct that was posted as an issue and then closed and accepted by the blockstack PBC engineers and the I think all of us discussed this last week, but one of the issues we wanted to raise was governmence and due process in general. And how do we handle issues of like these as they arise in the governance working group or in governance in general as we go forward.

Juliet Oberding: So how do we handle when some issues come up that impact the entire ecosystem, even though they're very acceptable everyone would probably vote yes on it. But what should be the steps taken and so I'd love to open this up and hear from everyone what their thoughts are with respect to due process and then perhaps we can do some writing or some thoughts either posting some notes on the GitHub on the project board or creating our own writing that we can share next week.

Juliet Oberding: Any thoughts on this particular issue?

Kieran Alexis: Um, I do a couple. This is kind of exactly what I was the area that I'm modeling in terms of mechanisms that might be invoked for kind of system wide issues that aren't necessarily, but they could include technical issues. Mining, you know, issues, that kind of thing. But that would be a subset of the larger issues. So just looking at where those two kind of, as I seen them sides break down, the kind of technical and the human, the mining issues and the kind of human issues.

Kieran Alexis: It seems every explanation I see seems to have a duality to them and I'm breaking, I'm seeing a bit clearer how that might work. So I'm thinking in terms of how you might invoke a decision making process, that the span of a particular amount of time to deal with a particular topic, then was able to be resolved and then uninvoked, something like that.

Juliet Oberding: Kieran I think that, I really think that's some good, a good thought process or the start working through the that decision making process that invoking of what's the next step that we follow here in the working group and then governments have a whole

Juliet Oberding: Anyone else who wants to follow up on Kieran's ideas about due process?

Brittany Laughlin: Yeah, I mean I think that there's a lot of ways to enact it. So maybe if anyone has ideas on how we can kind of like share those ideas because I think there's a lot of, like I don't know if it's having a forum posts and people weighing in kind of with feedback or different or if it's a collaborative document away and because I think to Kieran's point there there's, you know, human issues. There's technical issues. And then there's actually just the process itself. Like, what does that look like. So I think that there's a lot of ways that conversation can go

Brittany Laughlin: so maybe like what forum in which we can discuss those things. I'm curious to hear what this group is because I know this call, we usually don't have enough time to go very deep into those subjects, but maybe in written form, it's easier or a collaborative doc form.

Lane Rettig: I don't want to interrupt if you haven't finished your thought Brittany.

Brittany Laughlin: I'm done.

Lane Rettig: Okay, cool. Yeah, this is something I mean this topic like it's something that has come up so many times in the ethereum world and in the bitcoin world. And it's such a sort of core important topic. And it's interesting because it's also related to the previous bullet point we were discussing around like action items. And making sure that you know that there's some, you know, sort of official or quasi official or at least sort of socially recognized process by which you know decisions are made, and people can make their voice heard and we record the decisions that are made and there's accountability there. And this is really this really is governance in a nutshell.

Lane Rettig: I could talk about this forever. I don't want to let myself do that. But what I wanted to share is that one way we could approach this is through the SIP process right we could sort of decide as a group, as a community that like we do have the process and this process is called the SIP process. And maybe not everything has to go through that process. Right. And so there's some line like certainly protocol changes. Go through at standards probably go through it.

Lane Rettig: Maybe things that are not technical, but that involve the appointment of a, you know, community of server or something like we decided that that is a different track. But that still goes through the SIP process. So I'm just sort of proposing that that might be the right context to have this conversation. And I did do my best to lay out a framework for some of these things in my SIP proposal, which was shared last week. I'm not sure if people have had a chance to see it yet, but it has what I referred to as kind of tags or considerations I think I called them. So some issues are technical some are economic, some are more like philosophical and stuff. Yeah, just throwing it out there as a framework.

Juliet Oberding: And so I think since that slides us into that agenda topics that that's where we should go right now I

Phillip Roe: Just one to add just one comment.

Juliet Oberding: Yes, please.

Phillip Roe: Well, essentially our conception of life is, it's based mainly or I've been been censored to just to just consider the material or social aspects of life, and most of the actions in the world and government you know the governance is just on that field of thought and then you have been left out all the aspect of the spiritual that the by the ethics and things that have brought from the revelations of God has come in the history of mankind and and as Harold has said also that in the indigenous groups of, also, they have their own spiritual beliefs and also to bring some special ethics in how they organize.

Phillip Roe: So one of the things that probably will be wonderful if we just have this consultation of of those two aspects of life. And I don't know how to put it, because you know there's a lot of censorship. And because they say, Yeah, but, you know, they only, you know, the Communists, you know, they say no, only, only social or economics and then the true capitalist. No, no. The heart is not involved with business. So we had to get rid of that.

Phillip Roe: So then, then that aspect is very powerful. And then the, you know, the way you know the contract. I said, the rules of conduct and the way to be. And this is a world thing. And it's very complicated. Because each one will have different ways of doing so if we have a kind of a universal way of at least you know treating each other that will be just some principles that will help us to to maintain unity in the commons.

Juliet Oberding: I just have to stay here, here, Phillip. Because I think that that bringing in both the ethics and you know they're there are moral considerations ethic considerations and considerations of the heart that go along in governance, that it's not just mechanistic when we have people and human beings that are working together.

Juliet Oberding: So thank you for raising that and to bringing that into the issues of whether it's code of conduct or decision making process in general.

Lane Rettig: This is one of the biggest challenges that I've personally seen in blockchain governance, right, is that the vast majority of people who up to now have been the core stakeholders in like building and launching blockchain platforms and communities are engineers, and engineers like to codify things and boil them down to the non human, you know mechanistic designs which doesn't work very well in governmence. So I also I want to agree with this.

Juliet Oberding: And also Phillip, thank you for raising Harold's research Harold does is not here today, but he's done a lot of work on the, the two row wampum tribal approach to governance and decision making and due process. And I think that's something that we leave out is that there are many different voices in governance and in blockstack that have a different way of viewing how we can approach decision making. So I think it's really important to, you know, stop and take a moment and think about are we really addressing all those voices? At least within the confines of this of this group this working group. But it's really important.

Kieran Alexis: Reminds me of something that Nathan, what's his name, Nathan from the Cardano video from last year. That's in materials. In tehre, one of the quotes I pulled out of that that he says "to make a blockchain takes a village." I'm not sure that's totally correct to make a blockchain certainly takes a kind of a reflection of everybody that the blockchain. This doctrine is intended for everybody. So yeah, it's a way to try and reflect everybody within this group is hard. But, you know, it's possible.

Juliet Oberding: Yes, it's definitely possible.

Juliet Oberding: So bringing us back down to earth, I think brings us to a very, a way to connect with each other that is less formal and more human to human and so unless there's any other discussions to be had about this, I would like to go into the SIPS process proposal.

## SIPs process proposal

Juliet Oberding: I know that Lane you addressed it initially. Is there anything you'd like to add today? I'm sure we'll be talking about this more as we go on. But is there anything you'd like to add about it today?

Lane Rettig: Um, I guess just yeah at the highest level. And I know this has been brought up on previous calls, you know, we are looking for something sort of concrete for the foundation, whatever it will be called to, sort of, you know, take ownership of in the very beginning and I think that the SIP process steps I need to get used to calling it the SIPS process, is just it's a good starting point, because it's relatively clearly defined. It's very important that it sort of seems to me like a very natural thing for the foundation to take stewardship of because that is sort of its role in ecosystem. That's my understanding. And there's sort of no other obvious home for it.

Lane Rettig: And so you know it's it's what I've laid out here, which of course is completely open for comment and I really highly encourage everyone to jump in and poke holes in it and ask questions and propose things. It's not rocket science, right, it's kind of, you know, we're in a very interesting point in the life cycle of kind of block chains and their communities, because you know Bitcoin has been around for more than a decade and we kind of have seen what works and what doesn't work through the BIP process in bitcoin and the EIP process in Ethereum, and now you know ZIP with Z cash and some others so, you know, my philosophy is sort of don't reinvent the wheel, you know, borrow from the good stuff that exists out there, to the extent that it does exist, and then obviously, there should be some changes for our ecosystem.

Lane Rettig: And so I guess the biggest question I would leave everyone with as they look at this is sort of what makes our community special? And therefore what, you know, tweaks would we want to make. And that's sort of the framework from which I've approached this I could talk about it more, but probably the best thing would be for people to take a look and dive in. If they haven't already.

Brittany Laughlin: And thanks for that Lane. Yeah, I agree. I think the SIP process, you know, today has mainly been owned by blockstack PBC and so it isn't very decentralized, and so I think it's a place where there has been a traditional process that these these proposals are submitted. And, you know, anyone can comment and then they're either accepted or rejected and then implemented if they're accepted. So I think that process has been there. But I think what we can do to improve it is just having the community actually be more involved and then an independent organization like the foundation to actually help facilitate that.

Brittany Laughlin: It's like a key component. So it's no longer just PBC who's having that say. Um, so yeah, I see that as like, a very clear place where governance needs to happen and the process doesn't have to be complicated, but I think actually seeing that first SIP, either got rejected or accepted by a larger group than just PBC is like a huge win for decentralization, so like if we can focus towards that. That may be the first trial of this, you know, governance group.

Brittany Laughlin: And yeah, Lane did a great job with the proposal. So if you haven't read it, please do. I think it's open for comment. People can comment on the Google Sheets there, even if you just have questions, that would be great.

Lane Rettig: Yeah, it should be open for comment. I just dropped the link here if you have any issues accessing it or commenting on it, let me know.

SIP proposal issue from Lane: https://github.com/pm/issues/22

SIP proposal shared doc from Lane: https://docs.google.com/document/d/1huF3u6BlrEapbjw77wGp_lq3d3kC17ZugCalvpN8M3U/edit

Lane Rettig: And I think like everything else we should probably at some point migrated to github, just because we're thinking of GitHub is our kind of canonical knowledge base, but I do find common thing to the easier on Google Sheets. Sorry, Google Docs, just one thought I wanted to add to respond to what Brittany just said, as someone mentioned earlier on this call.

Lane Rettig: You know, the, the stacks 2.0 testnet is live, which is really exciting and like governance, in governance, you need to govern something. And so the fact that there is a testament and we're moving towards having like an actual, you know, block chain, which is government decentralized way. I think it's really exciting. It's great. I'm going to borrow Jason's favorite word here. There's definitely some synergy here between these two events.

Brittany Laughlin: Yeah, and with the plan for stacks 2.0 which has been published, is the goal is to have that launch, you know, stacks 2.0 ready for like, or to be finished and be turned on later this summer. So whether that's like June or July, but the goal of that is actually to have the community accept that, so like miners would actually accept the new updates. It wouldn't be something that PBC is just pushing out and people have to adopt, but actually there has to be multiple parties who accept it.

Brittany Laughlin: I think that that's a key component that we talked about stacks 2.0 launch, but it is impossible to happen without the support of multiple stakeholders in the community. So this governance group working towards that deadline as well. I think it's what's really cool. Because that will itself be a SIP. So SIP 7 is the actual proposal to launch stacks 2.0 and so if it got if it were rejected, then it wouldn't launch.

Lane Rettig: Just kidding.

Jason Schrader: I just wanted to echo my part on that too, when we look back at that original blog post a path to decentralization, you know, it's really fun. We are right in the middle of it. And with testnet, like you're saying, with governance, we're developing our processes like this is where it's all happening right now, so it's really fun.

Brittany Laughlin: Okay. Great. Well, I know we have like 12 minutes left. Philip I see that you have to leave. We'll catch you next time. If you want, I can do a quick update on just the foundation, I think that's what's next on the agenda. Did I skip something?

Juliet Oberding: That sounds great.

Juliet Oberding: Didn't want to interrupt the flow of the conversation, since it was really going well there so I stepped out, not literally just in the moderator form.

Lane Rettig: This is a decentralized process. It's all good.

## Stacks Foundation update (from PBC)

Brittany Laughlin: Okay, yeah. Um, yeah. So with the foundation, the good news is that the new entity exists, so we applied last week. And that process of picking a name was something I shared with you guys, but the legal process in which to do that. It's like when you file with the state if you file, anything that is too similar to something that exists, they will often reject it. So, we tried different things like Stacks Foundation, the Open Internet Foundation, Digital Rights, like we talked to the law firm that was helping us. And they're like, nope, nope, nope, nope.

Brittany Laughlin: Even with Blockstack Foundation, we asked them if we could apply with that because we thought it was distinct enough that it wouldn't overlap with anything besides Blockstack, but because blockstack PBC is registered in Delaware, they actually said that's gonna get rejected too because the you know the the body that's incorporating these doesn't know that you guys are related. So what we ended up with was the Stacks Open Internet Foundation is the full name of the organization.

Brittany Laughlin: And but the actual foundation will probably just call it the Stacks Foundation so we can do that legally as doing business as or we can sort of informally refer to it as that. But the goal was to get it separate, and it's own EIN,  and then the next step is to actually move some funding to initiate the organization over from PBC. So that's what the legal and accounting team are working on here at Bloackstack, it will also be discussed at this week's board meeting at PBC kind of the amount and and all that.

Brittany Laughlin: So we normally at blocksstack PBC do an update after our board meeting, we share with the community. I think that call scheduled for Friday morning. So if you want to join with that you'll get like a whole overview of the board and you'll see a lot of the foundation work in there, I'm working on the board slides, so it will also reference this group and the stuff that we've been able to get input on over the past few weeks.

Brittany Laughlin: So that's great that we can highlight that in a public way as well. But yeah, once there is money moved over into that new org to help kick it off, then I will be moving over my employment from blockstack PBC to the foundation so I will be independent of the corporation that's working on Blockstack to date and be able to really help kick off this in a new way. So, very exciting from our side.

Brittany Laughlin: I don't know if there's any questions on that, but just wanted to let you guys know where we are.

Juliet Oberding: I think that's wonderful. It's super exciting and so can we can we listen in to the board meeting or how does that work, you mentioned something or is that just a town hall that will happen?

Brittany Laughlin: Yeah, so I think the, we normally always do, like, a town hall or community call, I forgot, I think maybe it's called a community call after the board meeting to go over what was covered in the board meeting and I think that that is scheduled for Friday morning. And so I can let me just make sure I have the right link from our community team. And then I can share that that call is also.

Brittany Laughlin: Yes. Kieran Stacks Open Internet foundation.

Brittany Laughlin: That's right and and yeah that call is usually recorded as well. So if you can't make the call, then you can watch it afterwards as well. But what we do is we go over all of the highlights from the board meeting, usually I think we provide all of the slides from the board meeting, we just take out anything that may be like super sensitive, but yeah, so if you want updates on that. But like I said, it will include and mention the foundation.

Brittany Laughlin: And then I think the only other plan is to announce actually the foundation next week and a blog post sort of saying like this new foundation exists. So that will probably be on the, will probably write it on the blockstack blog, but we will probably want to put it out in some of our other community channels as well so I've helped set up our Twitter handle some of the properties. We're gonna have a website property. So a number of those just like domains. I'm having someone from my team just help like get them off the ground and and so with that we will be able to have like a place in a home and like a separate sort of space for all of us.

Brittany Laughlin: I'm excited about that. But I will share with you guys. Once we have that blog post up and it'll probably be in draft form and then we can you know if you have any thoughts before we publish it and I don't have an exact date yet, but it will definitely be sometime next week.

Juliet Oberding: Wonderful. Super exciting super awesome like I need fireworks or something.

Lane Rettig: That's pretty pretty exciting!

Juliet Oberding: Well, I think on that note, that's a big high note to to finish on I see we're at 7:54. I know some of you have to leave that at 8. Any questions for Brittany in the last few minutes of the governance call?

Lane Rettig: Is anything that we're doing today, especially with respect to this working group these calls the github stuff, etc. Brittany, do you foresee any of it changing or needing to change now that there is a foundation.

Brittany Laughlin: Good question. I don't think it needs to change anything that we have today, I think, if anything, figuring out like where this, the home exists for this type of work and group, like thinking about, you know, I'd love feedback from this group on this like if we are members of our community are writing a blog post about something that's about governance, or just things that they're learning, where can that exist and be amplified.

Brittany Laughlin: So, you know, would it be tweeting it out from the foundation Twitter handle or would it be, you know, we have a list of different open, you know, decentralized blogs that exists, and we can then do guest posts in it to highlight. So I think it's more about amplifying this work in a new way and less about sort of changing the structure of this these groups, but I'm open to feedback on that. And doesn't have to be real time feedback. It can be, you know, anytime.

Jason Schrader: There were actually two things that made me think of really quick and one would be, you know, we're talking about this this blog post that we might publish regularly. So maybe the first one could be kind of blockstack introducing the Foundation's blog and then the foundation carries on a blog from there.

Jason Schrader: And the other thing I thought of was related to the shared resources we discussed. I think some of the other low hanging fruit, we can get to right away is something like a zoom account or a better alternative if we could ever find one.

Brittany Laughlin: Yeah, I love that idea. Yeah, I think that that could be another place where we can just have an ownership and then it feels like contained and then just like payment of stuff too. I know sometimes it gets wonky of, like, okay, well, who owns this domain and where does it live.

Kieran Alexis: There is, I saw a telegram announced this week that they are kind of making the product to rival zoom to kind of fit in with the times, so that you had you just reminded me that, so I'll, I'll dig into that. See how that's coming along. That'd be cool.

Brittany Laughlin: Okay, great.

Juliet Oberding: And then on that same note, I also noticed that there was some updates for Jitsi, which is another alternative, and that is focused on privacy and there were some interesting things that came up. I know that Phillip had mentioned that he had tried to use it before and it sort of fell apart when you add in more than a certain amount of people, but I think they've done some updates and so I'll post an issue on jitsi and whether he know what we want to use for, whether we want to continue to use zoom or how we want to approach it, that's up to everyone in the community.

Lane Rettig: Jitsi has the benefit of being decentralized. There's no single backend server. And I believe it's open source, and yeah, I've had some not great experiences with it in the past, but I've also seen it have more usage recently. And in fact, there is a virtual conference in the Ethereum community that's happening on it and it's got something like 60 people on a single session, and as far as I know, it's been stable. So it seems like it's come a long way. So, good, good to look into it. Thanks, Juliet.

Brittany Laughlin: Actually bringing up another, his is a tangent. So if there's any more questions on that, I'm happy for thoughts.

## Any other updates/topics?

Brittany Laughlin: And I think another thing, you mentioned conferences. So I know that there's a number of digital conferences happening and I know I like Consensys is turning digital since they won't be able to be in New York City and I think we were able to secure a slot for the foundation to talk about that, but I do know that there are a number of conferences looking always for speakers around certain topics.

Brittany Laughlin: So I see that as, you know, members of this group are doing a lot of work in this space. If you're looking for opportunities to kind of showcase some of the stuff that you're learning it doesn't have to be blockstack specific but if you know there's you're looking for avenues like that happy just to be helpful and likeconnecting the dots and saying, Okay, this you know this is a great avenue to do that because I know our team has someone who's paying attention to a lot of the events. And I think it's a great way to just continue to highlight the work that's happening here and get feedback on the work that's happening here.

Juliet Oberding: I think that's, Jason I see you're leaving so, bye!

Jason Schrader: Bye, everyone. Thank you. I gotta jump off.

Lane Rettig: See you next week! I've got to run in a second. Well, I just wanted to respond to what Brittany just said, I feel like a broken record because I feel like everything I say I'm going to be tagged as the person who starts everything he says with "In Ethereum we tried this",  and this happened that happened kind of a lot of things that happened in theory. And so one of the things that has worked really well on the governance initiatives. I've been a part of in Ethereum is exactly what Brittany is describing you know, there's a big group of people, you know, well, not a big buzz you know 10 or 12 or 15 people who kind of have calls like this regularly to talk about governance and meta governance and that group has gotten slots to speak at a number of conferences about governance in general and about the theory and governance and it's been a great platform for getting ideas out there and recruiting more people to join and learning. And so I like, I think it's a great idea, right, if anyone anyone in this group wants to get on a stage, whether it's actual or virtual and share their experience as being a part of this group like I support that and I'll also work hard to create those opportunities for people.

Juliet Oberding: Excellent. I think that many people have indicated that they're interested in either speaking or writing and particularly in this area. I know we've seen that Harold has done a lot of work. I think that many of us in this group would be interested in this opportunity. So I thank both of you for keeping a lookout for all of us. And the foundation, eventually, because this really sounds great to have many people speaking about governance and yeah, I'll just leave it there.

Juliet Oberding: So I think we're at 8:01 and I'm here, I'm willing to stay here too, if there are any other questions or discussions I know other people have to hop off. If you have, if there's anything else I will let everyone go who needs to go. But if there's anything else, please, please raise it, and let us know what you would like to talk about or issues that you feel need to be further discuss are addressed in this working group call.

Brittany Laughlin: I've got to hop, but thank you guys.

Kieran Alexis: Thanks again.

Juliet Oberding: All right, I think everybody's leaving now. Did you have some things you wanted to discuss or are you you off as well?

Juliet Oberding: Alright, seeing that everyone, Kieran, you're still here, and you've muted.

Kieran Alexis: I'm just trying to log out.

Juliet Oberding: Should be a button up on the right side that says leave meeting.

Kieran Alexis: I found it nice and big red letters.

Juliet Oberding: All right, well, thank you.
