# 20200720 Governance Working Group Call 20

Note: *The content below is a raw, unedited transcript from Zoom.*

-----

1
00:00:01.650 --> 00:00:02.669
Jenny: Alright. Hey, everybody.

2
00:00:02.760 --> 00:00:15.120
Jenny: So we are recording now. Thank you for joining in a different time than we normally do. And the purpose of today's group is to or today's meeting is to do a little bit of a retro

3
00:00:16.230 --> 00:00:20.490
Jenny: On this working group has been working together for the past couple of months and

4
00:00:21.510 --> 00:00:31.650
Jenny: To figure out how we want to operate moving forward and will be considered in questions like our relationship to the foundation and know how independently, you'd like to

5
00:00:32.310 --> 00:00:47.850
Jenny: operate and how we want to support our goals moving forward as a community group. So we have that all detailed in an agenda. Thank you. Brittany for putting that on GitHub goodness share my screen. Take a look at it.

6
00:00:48.840 --> 00:00:49.380
Jenny: Year old

7
00:00:53.460 --> 00:00:55.380
Jenny: All right. Okay.

8
00:00:56.730 --> 00:00:58.440
Jenny: How's everyone doing first of all

9
00:01:01.050 --> 00:01:03.960
Lane Rettig: Regular Monday morning still booting up, how's everyone else doing

10
00:01:05.400 --> 00:01:07.260
Jenny: Aim, I was just saying that to Brittany.

11
00:01:09.930 --> 00:01:10.770
Juliet Oberding: I'm half asleep.

12
00:01:11.400 --> 00:01:14.730
Lane Rettig: Yeah, yeah. I feel for you folks on the west coast.

13
00:01:18.120 --> 00:01:20.430
Jenny: Yeah, the only person who's figured it out as Jason who

14
00:01:20.700 --> 00:01:26.100
Jenny: Is up so early, and just operates as though he's on West on East Coast time even though he's on the west coast.

15
00:01:27.000 --> 00:01:31.170
Jason Schrader: Yeah, I'll admit I'm lagging a little bit today too, but, um, but I'm here and I

16
00:01:31.170 --> 00:01:31.890
Jason Schrader: Think that okay

17
00:01:32.460 --> 00:01:32.910
All right.

18
00:01:34.200 --> 00:01:35.760
Lane Rettig: You need more coffee. That's the secret.

19
00:01:36.150 --> 00:01:39.480
Jason Schrader: There you go. Yeah, you're right, it's only cup, number two, number 10

20
00:01:42.300 --> 00:01:44.070
Jenny: Okay, well, and

21
00:01:45.720 --> 00:01:47.550
Jenny: I wouldn't recommend having that which coffee.

22
00:01:49.620 --> 00:02:06.570
Jenny: Anyway, beyond that, we'll get into our discussion topics. So yeah, like I mentioned earlier, and I think that this this idea for a retro came up, because as we all seem to want to get more aligned on what our focuses and goals are and

23
00:02:08.010 --> 00:02:20.370
Jenny: We also want to figure out the best ways for us to work together, moving forward, I know that we've been pretty consistent about our meetings every Wednesday for the past few months, and I know that folks like Jason have done a ton of work in

24
00:02:21.150 --> 00:02:35.340
Jenny: refining our standard operating procedures and making all of our work really accessible to the broader community, which is great and but especially as we look ahead of or ahead of sex you in like looking after that.

25
00:02:36.360 --> 00:02:49.530
Jenny: I think that there's a lot of scope for this working group to take the lead on, it's very important community issues. And I think there's some unresolved questions about, you know, how we want to go about tackling those

26
00:02:50.550 --> 00:03:00.750
Jenny: Shoes and what our relationship would be like with the foundation, as you know, sort of a supporting institution and not necessarily like a member of the working group.

27
00:03:01.710 --> 00:03:11.430
Jenny: So, and under discussion topics you know we had a few very basic discussion topics lives listed so you know things like potential new meeting times and

28
00:03:11.850 --> 00:03:20.340
Jenny: And you know how we want to work together, but also some deeper considerations as well. So, you know, what are the most impactful community issues that we can work on. I know that all of us are really

29
00:03:21.360 --> 00:03:30.480
Jenny: Passionate about acting as a voice for the broader block stack or stacks community and, you know, what do we need for that to be productive. Is it funding.

30
00:03:30.780 --> 00:03:43.380
Jenny: And is it, you know, other tools for this group tomorrow to work more effectively. And so with that I'm going to open up the floor to other members and just get your thoughts on all of that.

31
00:04:00.090 --> 00:04:00.720
Jenny: Any thoughts.

32
00:04:06.030 --> 00:04:13.890
Brittany Laughlin: Yeah, I'm happy to jump in. And so I think like the getting setup of the foundation was a

33
00:04:13.890 --> 00:04:15.720
Brittany Laughlin: huge undertaking of this

34
00:04:16.740 --> 00:04:18.600
Brittany Laughlin: Is group. And I think that that's

35
00:04:19.890 --> 00:04:31.830
Brittany Laughlin: Been really great. I think the thing that I imagine like going forward is, you know, how does the governance working group, you know, set initiatives, be able to

36
00:04:32.340 --> 00:04:45.120
Brittany Laughlin: You know, come up with ways to support different needs in the community. And then, you know, can always approach the foundation with those things, but that the group feels like it's an independent group and not just necessarily

37
00:04:46.260 --> 00:04:53.280
Brittany Laughlin: A auxiliary group to the foundation, because I think as we grow the initiatives under the foundation, this group will

38
00:04:53.850 --> 00:05:06.180
Brittany Laughlin: You know, I want it to be like a community entity that communities can come to and interact with and engage with around specific governance questions around the support of different technologies and

39
00:05:06.870 --> 00:05:20.730
Brittany Laughlin: And that you know may or may not require you know the Foundation's input. So like how to make it feel like it truly belongs to the community and the way that it's organized. I also see that this could be a good transition point because

40
00:05:21.840 --> 00:05:28.680
Brittany Laughlin: Very soon we're launching our grants program. And so with that, you know, potentially

41
00:05:29.610 --> 00:05:44.850
Brittany Laughlin: Obtaining a grant for this group. So like self organized community working and have different initiatives and then being able to apply for, you know, potential funding through the foundation grants program in order to pursue different

42
00:05:45.960 --> 00:05:52.440
Brittany Laughlin: You know directives or or supporting different Community initiatives, things like

43
00:05:52.890 --> 00:06:02.790
Brittany Laughlin: And Jenny and I talked a little bit about this before, but like, you know, I think that there's a growing voice from the community around, you know, what does like Radek support look like and and how

44
00:06:03.240 --> 00:06:09.210
Brittany Laughlin: Does that get managed within the community. And I think that that's like an interesting governance question that this group work on

45
00:06:09.840 --> 00:06:17.850
Brittany Laughlin: In addition to things like, you know, our focus on privacy and why that's important and how that manifests either within our community or externally.

46
00:06:18.180 --> 00:06:23.820
Brittany Laughlin: How do we support that. I think that's a really interesting governance question that can be taken one as well. So

47
00:06:24.330 --> 00:06:39.210
Brittany Laughlin: That's a lot of thoughts but that's where my head is that, but I'm open to you know if people have completely different ideas surrounding just this group in general and like what they want to see is it shorter meetings or meetings or meetings, whatever. That's also a topic that Jenny.

48
00:06:44.730 --> 00:06:46.410
Lane Rettig: Thank you. Brittany. Thank you Jenny.

49
00:06:47.010 --> 00:06:48.840
Lane Rettig: Yeah. Just, just two quick thoughts from

50
00:06:49.320 --> 00:06:50.910
Lane Rettig: My side, the

51
00:06:52.170 --> 00:06:54.930
Lane Rettig: First is that I guess I'm feeling

52
00:06:56.040 --> 00:07:05.970
Lane Rettig: A lack of clarity on the delineation between the role and responsibilities that are in the wheelhouse of the foundation relative to other stuff that working group. And that could be

53
00:07:06.420 --> 00:07:11.550
Lane Rettig: A positive list. It could be a negative list, right, it could be like Foundation does ABC working group does you know

54
00:07:12.030 --> 00:07:16.530
Lane Rettig: The if it could be Foundation does everything except you know, Q, R, and F or something.

55
00:07:17.370 --> 00:07:25.140
Lane Rettig: There's different ways that could be structured. So that's the first point I wanted to make. It's a bit difficult to respond to the question without having more clarity on that. And the second one is like

56
00:07:26.640 --> 00:07:35.280
Lane Rettig: I have always viewed the working group as a conduit for the needs of the broader community and Brittany I think you spoke to this really well just now.

57
00:07:36.060 --> 00:07:44.970
Lane Rettig: I was gonna say I it's not sort of clear to me what needs the community has what preferences. They have obviously the survey helped a bit, but I think there's still a lot of work to be done there.

58
00:07:46.110 --> 00:07:49.410
Lane Rettig: And and i think that the examples you gave, just now Brittany run things like privacy.

59
00:07:51.420 --> 00:07:55.170
Lane Rettig: And sorry, I'm having a total brain freeze here. What was the other example.

60
00:07:55.770 --> 00:07:56.430
Lane Rettig: Yeah, just

61
00:07:57.360 --> 00:08:03.030
Lane Rettig: Collections. Yes. Exactly right. You've mentioned products. That's a great example. So like those are two concrete things that I think

62
00:08:03.060 --> 00:08:07.440
Lane Rettig: That this group could choose to tackle if they wanted to. And I wonder what else is on that list.

63
00:08:08.880 --> 00:08:17.340
Jenny: At that point, Lane, I think, and the your question around the delineation between the foundation and the group has been. I feel like it's

64
00:08:17.610 --> 00:08:25.560
Jenny: Maybe the area in which we get stuck and but seeing is how this is a community. Working Group, I don't, I don't see why this

65
00:08:26.040 --> 00:08:33.540
Jenny: I don't see what would stop this group from just from asking for whatever it is that the community needs. Right. I think that

66
00:08:34.320 --> 00:08:45.720
Jenny: You know, when we talk about roddick's that is something that is a big blocker for our app developers who make up a huge part of our community. And to me, that is, that's a governance issue, right, if we are

67
00:08:46.260 --> 00:08:53.610
Jenny: If there's a tool that is blocking community members from being productive or being effective in the way they want to do, especially as it really relates to the

68
00:08:54.090 --> 00:09:06.270
Jenny: The wider work. They want to do on privacy, then that is that falls under the umbrella of the kind of work that the governance working group can do so in my mind what I envision the future of this relationship looking like is

69
00:09:07.500 --> 00:09:15.390
Jenny: With something like the Grants Program. The foundation would obviously have a process setup to

70
00:09:16.020 --> 00:09:22.980
Jenny: Allocate grant money. But as far as like, you know, making the case for needing that kind of funding to support Community initiatives.

71
00:09:23.490 --> 00:09:33.030
Jenny: The I see the working group is having a lot more leverage because this working group represents the you know the community. It is the voice of the community and

72
00:09:34.740 --> 00:09:49.680
Jenny: If it requires like more work in the area of talking to community members are, you know, doing another survey or like doing focus groups to really understand what the community needs to function the way that it wants to. Then I see this group, taking the lead on that kind of work and

73
00:09:50.880 --> 00:09:55.200
Jenny: Letting the foundation know like, hey, this is, this is the pulse of the community. This is what people need

74
00:09:55.590 --> 00:10:02.370
Jenny: And, and, like, here are the ways in which you can support. Here's how we're going to propose that you can do it. And here are the ways that we think are

75
00:10:02.850 --> 00:10:08.190
Jenny: Your the ways that we think are going to promote equity and productivity in the community and

76
00:10:09.150 --> 00:10:19.380
Jenny: You know, it would be hard for the foundation to disagree with a lot of that, given that this group is very representative of what the community wants and what the community thinks that's how I see the evolution sort of

77
00:10:20.550 --> 00:10:21.300
Jenny: Playing out

78
00:10:27.060 --> 00:10:31.620
Juliet Oberding: I would agree with with Jenny and Britain in everything that's been said.

79
00:10:33.630 --> 00:10:34.140
Juliet Oberding: Before

80
00:10:35.190 --> 00:10:37.860
Juliet Oberding: Before this moment before I open my mouth.

81
00:10:39.090 --> 00:10:41.190
Juliet Oberding: But I, I also think that

82
00:10:43.080 --> 00:11:03.180
Juliet Oberding: We need more community, we definitely need more interaction with the community and having our pulse on what the community's needs are, you mentioned roddick's I would prefer to call it collections, because not everybody wants to use or likes the roddick's

83
00:11:05.790 --> 00:11:10.140
Juliet Oberding: Product. Let's put it that way but and I know that free to go ahead and

84
00:11:11.160 --> 00:11:22.650
Juliet Oberding: Tanya and dance have all been talking about collections from some for some months. And that's sort of gone by the wayside. But that's something that's extremely important.

85
00:11:23.280 --> 00:11:34.560
Juliet Oberding: From an app development perspective to be able to share information without sharing information, so to speak. There's the complete privacy block of the

86
00:11:35.160 --> 00:11:51.450
Juliet Oberding: Information of the individual user, but you still have, they have, they can take their information from each app, it provides a better experience for the user. Overall, but so without getting into the technical stuff.

87
00:11:53.310 --> 00:11:57.540
Juliet Oberding: I do have. I know I talked with Jenny about this. I do would like to see

88
00:11:59.100 --> 00:12:10.200
Juliet Oberding: More community involvement and more of our involvement taking on specific projects. And I think all of you have spoken to projects that we can start moving forward on

89
00:12:11.160 --> 00:12:18.300
Juliet Oberding: I like the idea of being able to support the community in grants. Because I've heard from the from community members about

90
00:12:18.780 --> 00:12:28.470
Juliet Oberding: You know what, how can we get grants for work that we're creating for the overall community that will move things forward, whether it's in collections or in

91
00:12:28.890 --> 00:12:39.870
Juliet Oberding: In other areas. So I think being able to support community members and be a perhaps an advocate is what I'm hearing in my head right now.

92
00:12:41.400 --> 00:12:44.250
Juliet Oberding: I think those things are important. I think it's important for us to have

93
00:12:45.330 --> 00:12:49.230
Juliet Oberding: Our own within. There's the charter of the

94
00:12:50.970 --> 00:13:11.580
Juliet Oberding: Foundation, but our own charter as community members, our own mission. And I know that I've taught with I've talked to Dan and I've talked to Jenny about the, the idea that one of our key ethos as as a community that for me is different from other

95
00:13:13.020 --> 00:13:19.800
Juliet Oberding: block chain blockchain communities is this. I mean, it's not completely different, but there's a real focus here on

96
00:13:20.460 --> 00:13:30.690
Juliet Oberding: Can't be evil on privacy on a user own internet, all of those things and and those that that's something that needs to be part of our own.

97
00:13:31.410 --> 00:13:47.370
Juliet Oberding: Mission statement as our own charter as a working group our own what what our foundation is and then somehow we as a working group handle these different issues. What, what steps to take. And I think lane and

98
00:13:48.540 --> 00:14:04.530
Juliet Oberding: Jason have done incredible work that's going to set us up for the next for moving forward, and I agree with Brittany, that this is kind of the tipping point right now where we can start taking over or not taking over. But start

99
00:14:06.120 --> 00:14:12.510
Juliet Oberding: You know, working with the community on different projects. So that's my thoughts for today. So thanks.

100
00:14:13.980 --> 00:14:15.360
Jenny: Thanks. Juliet and

101
00:14:16.260 --> 00:14:19.020
Jenny: I also agree with everything he said

102
00:14:19.800 --> 00:14:38.430
Jenny: Right up until I open my mouth. Thank you for for just summing up all all that up really nicely. I think I'm what is exciting about the possibility of this group applying for a grant is your number one being able to operate very independently and and efficiently and sufficiently

103
00:14:39.600 --> 00:14:49.530
Jenny: And also maybe he be more bias toward action, which is like a very strong value. I think community and

104
00:14:50.490 --> 00:14:58.770
Jenny: You know, on the block SEC team. So you talk about ways that were different, you know, when would we write our own charter. I think it's probably in

105
00:14:59.070 --> 00:15:12.780
Jenny: I think you would probably be impossible to write a charter. Now that would encapsulate everything that we stand for one to do and it would probably take a few. Well, in my opinion, I think it would take a few iterations of like working with the community and seeing and

106
00:15:13.860 --> 00:15:24.660
Jenny: What our dynamic is and what the needs of Community actually are before you know we have an established charter in place. But that being said, with a grant. I think the beauty of of that is that

107
00:15:25.590 --> 00:15:39.870
Jenny: We could apply or we could you know put together proposal, saying, you know, these are the things that this group wants to wants to work on. This is what we stand for, you know, one of our biggest priorities is promoting and enforcing

108
00:15:41.370 --> 00:15:43.860
Jenny: The privacy in the technology that we build

109
00:15:44.220 --> 00:15:53.610
Jenny: And these are, these are the things that we want to get done in the next three months. So, you know, radical and collections being one of them. So, you know, this group would oversee a bounty, for example, for

110
00:15:53.910 --> 00:16:08.370
Jenny: Products and collections and we would be responsible for, you know, onboarding or recruiting developers who could help us figure that out and you know the other things that we can be responsible for are, you know, more like educational content around

111
00:16:09.810 --> 00:16:12.660
Jenny: Privacy centric applications or you know more

112
00:16:13.860 --> 00:16:21.810
Jenny: More standards around our, you know, our open source projects or just or open source standards. I know we've talked about contributing guidelines on GitHub. For example, so

113
00:16:22.740 --> 00:16:28.650
Jenny: There are a few deliverables that this group could definitely be responsible for and we can hold ourselves accountable by

114
00:16:29.250 --> 00:16:34.410
Jenny: applying for grants saying like for the next three months. This is what we want to do we want to take the lead on this.

115
00:16:34.740 --> 00:16:41.520
Jenny: But we are you know working directly with community and we're, we're here to represent what community once and, you know, should we deliver

116
00:16:42.300 --> 00:16:50.610
Jenny: Deliver on X y&z we would apply for like continued funding. And yeah, I can see that grant money going toward bounties, like I mentioned, it can also go toward

117
00:16:51.540 --> 00:17:02.940
Jenny: Meeting so like I know that you and I talked about this Juliet, but it's great to have these really productive working group sessions where we all have coffee or lunch together. I don't see why, you know, Grant.

118
00:17:03.690 --> 00:17:12.000
Jenny: shouldn't go toward that either. So I just think that like the vision for me very clear when we we like grants become part of the picture.

119
00:17:16.770 --> 00:17:17.250
Juliet Oberding: I just think

120
00:17:17.460 --> 00:17:24.750
Juliet Oberding: Jenny that brings a sense of camaraderie for people sitting with their coffee or their Starbucks or whatever, when we

121
00:17:25.110 --> 00:17:41.250
Juliet Oberding: You know, like we did with the women's meeting of which was only there for short part but it made you feel really connected with each other and and and having that camaraderie connection. I think is important when you're working closely on important issues so

122
00:17:42.300 --> 00:17:43.530
Juliet Oberding: It's a sideshow, I guess.

123
00:17:44.190 --> 00:17:49.140
Jenny: Yeah, absolutely. And this work is time consuming and I think that we shouldn't underestimate.

124
00:17:49.440 --> 00:17:58.170
Jenny: The amount of effort that's going to need to go into relationship building with community. Right. So, our group is one sliver of the community. There are so many other

125
00:17:59.070 --> 00:18:07.230
Jenny: sub groups that we need to get to know better in order to get a real read on the needs of community and

126
00:18:07.680 --> 00:18:17.190
Jenny: So, you know, we might write a proposal where we outline three deliverables that we want to get done in the next three months and then we show it to community and everyone's like, no, we don't want that. So I think

127
00:18:17.970 --> 00:18:34.260
Jenny: I think what I'm trying to stress is like the grant process holds us accountable in applying and submitting a proposal and, you know, being very public about what we say we want to do for community. And I think that's actually one way to get more more involvement from community as well.

128
00:18:38.580 --> 00:18:39.960
Harold Davis: Yeah, I was just thinking about that.

129
00:18:40.080 --> 00:18:45.270
Harold Davis: That last point as well. Um, it's exciting to hear all this discussion about collections as

130
00:18:46.290 --> 00:18:54.150
Harold Davis: I've noticed as well, you know, and learned a lot about how focused and how important collections is to the to the broader community, but also

131
00:18:54.630 --> 00:19:02.700
Harold Davis: Learning things about how important you know restructuring the way data is collected going forward, right, and how important that is to

132
00:19:03.180 --> 00:19:10.320
Harold Davis: The long term sustainability of web three and blockchain based systems in general, which is also something fundamental to

133
00:19:11.160 --> 00:19:21.480
Harold Davis: The things that I put forward him and it's working group. And so it really seems like there can be a two way conversation dialogue created between, you know, developers folks in data.

134
00:19:22.080 --> 00:19:33.030
Harold Davis: With you know collections as that as that a platform for that discussion, and it can be, you know, a tangible discussion, you know, splitting things out as as the discussion happens you know

135
00:19:33.510 --> 00:19:48.630
Harold Davis: And so it. Um, it seems like a very, you know, critical point where there can start to be some you know interaction is Julia says right between the product community and in the governance working group because it feels like data can be

136
00:19:49.350 --> 00:20:00.000
Harold Davis: Thought of in assistance design approach and then really, you can really address some, you know, some of the fundamental things about long term sustainability.

137
00:20:00.900 --> 00:20:10.410
Harold Davis: When you, when you try to you know sow the seeds for working turn into a better ecosystem of data than what we have now, which if we don't address it. Right.

138
00:20:11.010 --> 00:20:20.910
Harold Davis: In the beginning, years of these blockchain based systems, we can just have the same ecosystem that during the New Year talks about leak into

139
00:20:21.450 --> 00:20:33.870
Harold Davis: The next iteration of the Internet and but it also seems like, you know, important distributions of distributed power dynamics can be built into the systems approaches to data.

140
00:20:34.590 --> 00:20:42.690
Harold Davis: And so yes, it's exciting to hear this discussion come up here and it's something that we're hopefully trying to contribute a peace to

141
00:20:43.320 --> 00:20:50.160
Harold Davis: Inner Critic project that we're thankful for opportunity for. But yeah, so the the grants, being able to

142
00:20:50.850 --> 00:21:02.610
Harold Davis: You know, going to parties like that for this governance working group that can kind of enable folks that come into the ecosystem or folks that are already in the ecosystem to to build in a way of long term sustainability.

143
00:21:03.330 --> 00:21:15.510
Harold Davis: It sounds like a beautiful idea and sounds beautiful that we'd be able to allocate resources. People are funding right myself people is a lot more valuable, a lot of ways. So

144
00:21:17.430 --> 00:21:21.570
Harold Davis: I know that the grants to attract the people. So that's a, that's a beautiful thing.

145
00:21:27.240 --> 00:21:28.740
Juliet Oberding: I just wanted to follow up on

146
00:21:30.210 --> 00:21:37.650
Juliet Oberding: What Harold said because it made me think of a conversation and and what's come up recently and privacy.

147
00:21:38.730 --> 00:21:51.240
Juliet Oberding: So, one way or one possible thing that we can do and I'm just throwing out ideas here, so not saying that it's something that I think we have to do or or anything like that, is that

148
00:21:51.720 --> 00:22:03.960
Juliet Oberding: Recently, we had the shrimps case and the privacy shield issues which isn't really a problem for any developers on our platform. But still, they'll want to have guidance.

149
00:22:05.430 --> 00:22:12.960
Juliet Oberding: You know guidance when they're developing apps with respect to the, you know, how do they, you know, go about writing there.

150
00:22:14.670 --> 00:22:24.360
Juliet Oberding: I'm not talking. I'm just talking about here's what the, you know, some guidance from the governance group regarding privacy matters that are coming up in

151
00:22:25.740 --> 00:22:27.150
Juliet Oberding: In the greater wide world.

152
00:22:28.470 --> 00:22:30.000
Juliet Oberding: So that there is some

153
00:22:31.200 --> 00:22:32.460
Juliet Oberding: Guidance for them.

154
00:22:34.380 --> 00:22:39.000
Juliet Oberding: About those particular privacy issues and then even the privacy shield

155
00:22:40.380 --> 00:22:41.490
Juliet Oberding: ruling that came up

156
00:22:42.840 --> 00:23:05.280
Juliet Oberding: Last week that's extremely important, I think, for everyone to to that type of thing that impacts worldwide whether none of us are collecting any data in our applications, it's still important for us to have some consideration of how to interact with those larger world structures.

157
00:23:06.000 --> 00:23:11.610
Lane Rettig: Truly, I'm actually not familiar with what you're talking about. Would you mind just briefly introducing this privacy shield idea.

158
00:23:12.300 --> 00:23:13.380
Juliet Oberding: Okay, so there's been

159
00:23:13.710 --> 00:23:22.740
Juliet Oberding: Since the mid 90s. I think I can't remember, but it's been a long time that there was a concept of privacy shield in

160
00:23:23.520 --> 00:23:31.980
Juliet Oberding: The United States and there was a way that you could working through the FTC even and through various private organizations.

161
00:23:32.640 --> 00:23:53.310
Juliet Oberding: Be able to protect your, your company and say that you took all the other than your terms and conditions and anything that's on your website or your applications or any of your products that you are meeting all the requirements with respect to privacy.

162
00:23:56.490 --> 00:24:05.850
Juliet Oberding: And it's, it's an organization that would essentially validate that you were, you were doing x particular steps with respect to privacy.

163
00:24:06.330 --> 00:24:26.970
Juliet Oberding: And so now that's been struck down. And what that means is there's going to be a lot more heavy lifting that individual corporations or entities will have to do with respect to data that they use from the EU.

164
00:24:29.310 --> 00:24:37.470
Juliet Oberding: Us and other companies from others outside of the EU will have to do with respect to when they have EU

165
00:24:38.130 --> 00:24:46.440
Juliet Oberding: Community members are citizens on their applications or products or what have you, where data is flowing from the EU.

166
00:24:47.280 --> 00:25:02.040
Juliet Oberding: Citizens into a US company's product. So there, there's a kind of a really lame description, but it's it kind of gives you that it gives you the general idea. There's a

167
00:25:02.550 --> 00:25:15.150
Juliet Oberding: There's a case that went through the Court of Justice on, I think it was THURSDAY THE RULING CAME DOWN AND SINCE THEN I there have been a number of

168
00:25:17.010 --> 00:25:24.450
Juliet Oberding: Webinars and such like multiple on the day of the ruling and Friday through the

169
00:25:25.980 --> 00:25:32.370
Juliet Oberding: International Association of privacy professionals, which is a body that certifies people for

170
00:25:33.180 --> 00:25:52.020
Juliet Oberding: To be privacy professionals, but they've done there's been so much discussion and talk a monk's lawyers and privacy professionals and still going on to this moment about how will that impact us and us being companies that

171
00:25:53.550 --> 00:26:05.880
Juliet Oberding: Have a data flow from EU to us or or other countries. So that's and I haven't gotten into the nitty gritty details of the

172
00:26:07.560 --> 00:26:19.860
Juliet Oberding: Of the ruling. I know, but it's a major, it's going to have a major impact and probably this is where we're seeing more us universal privacy.

173
00:26:20.610 --> 00:26:31.020
Juliet Oberding: Laws being enacted or data related laws being an active, as you know, we've heard some over the last year, and even before that, that there's been pressured to have us

174
00:26:32.550 --> 00:26:36.510
Juliet Oberding: More like the know the CPA and California

175
00:26:37.530 --> 00:26:41.640
Juliet Oberding: That they'll be much more regulation coming down.

176
00:26:43.260 --> 00:26:48.600
Juliet Oberding: For privacy from a federal level as opposed to just to state wide State level.

177
00:26:49.650 --> 00:26:51.000
Juliet Oberding: Does that answer your question.

178
00:26:52.380 --> 00:26:52.650
Lane Rettig: Yes.

179
00:26:52.920 --> 00:26:55.650
Lane Rettig: Thank you. Privacy is privacy. It's very important.

180
00:27:04.230 --> 00:27:05.580
Jenny: Thanks for sharing that. JULIET

181
00:27:06.120 --> 00:27:07.200
Jenny: And things Harold as well.

182
00:27:07.440 --> 00:27:11.520
Jenny: I'll let my partner now that we're talking about privacy shield. He'll be so excited.

183
00:27:13.050 --> 00:27:16.920
Jenny: But yeah, so are you. Are you saying that

184
00:27:18.570 --> 00:27:35.730
Jenny: These kinds of rulings will obviously impact those in our community. And are you saying that these are the kinds of issues that this group would also be or could be responsible for, I guess, being staying up to date on and and being a head on.

185
00:27:36.750 --> 00:27:41.040
Jenny: In order to advise and assist community members who might be impacted by

186
00:27:42.360 --> 00:27:43.470
Jenny: These policy changes.

187
00:27:44.310 --> 00:27:46.710
Juliet Oberding: I think that's an interesting question because

188
00:27:47.040 --> 00:27:51.510
Juliet Oberding: I would start to see that the foundation would be like the source of

189
00:27:52.050 --> 00:27:52.530
Of

190
00:27:55.020 --> 00:28:15.480
Juliet Oberding: You know, the information and education regarding these types of rulings and how they impact developers in the community. And so, so I do. So that's, it's an interesting question because then what is the role of the working group. I mean, if the if the if the like.

191
00:28:17.040 --> 00:28:20.190
Juliet Oberding: If the foundation is the entity that

192
00:28:22.080 --> 00:28:34.470
Juliet Oberding: Talks about impact of privacy education and things like that around development and and then these these I'll call them side issues.

193
00:28:35.100 --> 00:28:41.880
Juliet Oberding: Of, you know, legislation that comes down the pike that can potentially impact developers.

194
00:28:42.720 --> 00:28:53.190
Juliet Oberding: And then what does the working group do with that and I just see the US as as really supporting that same mission. If the foundation is the

195
00:28:53.910 --> 00:29:01.530
Juliet Oberding: Sort of the real mouthpiece of, you know what, what are we, what are the privacy.

196
00:29:02.280 --> 00:29:18.480
Juliet Oberding: Concerns in our community. And how does this impact us then the working group should be supporting the community members in some way, whether that is to create guiding step, you know, working with the foundation to create value.

197
00:29:20.400 --> 00:29:37.500
Juliet Oberding: And this is just one of many things because we can talk about it from privacy perspective and this new case because it's something tangible, but there's so many ways that when we talked about education that we could be working hand in hand with the foundation to support

198
00:29:38.910 --> 00:29:44.490
Juliet Oberding: Community members from guidance or educational perspective.

199
00:29:46.020 --> 00:29:46.410
Juliet Oberding: So,

200
00:29:47.670 --> 00:29:50.730
Juliet Oberding: From supporting them with grants, so

201
00:29:51.900 --> 00:29:53.700
Juliet Oberding: That's, that's basically where I am.

202
00:30:00.390 --> 00:30:00.780
Juliet Oberding: You

203
00:30:01.200 --> 00:30:16.380
Jenny: Brittany Is there anything that you, you already know about the Foundation's role in those kinds of policy issues or or not yet. I mean, we're just getting up and running. So, and I'm assuming, like, not everything is figured out yet.

204
00:30:17.070 --> 00:30:18.630
Jenny: Yeah yeah

205
00:30:18.660 --> 00:30:19.740
Brittany Laughlin: Not everything is figured out

206
00:30:19.740 --> 00:30:23.190
Brittany Laughlin: Yet but yeah i think you know as

207
00:30:25.140 --> 00:30:32.430
Brittany Laughlin: The long view of the foundation is it will probably continue to be a very small like quote unquote staff and so

208
00:30:32.880 --> 00:30:47.760
Brittany Laughlin: Our goal is to be able to help like empower different groups, different organizations different like working groups committees to be able to get important work done that supports the mission. And so it's like we can help amplify and

209
00:30:49.260 --> 00:30:55.050
Brittany Laughlin: You know, direct resources like whether that's, you know, funding more research towards certain ideas are

210
00:30:56.280 --> 00:31:04.830
Brittany Laughlin: You know, encouraging publishing and certain ideas or groups to take on these different challenges, but I think it is one of these like a little mix of like

211
00:31:05.490 --> 00:31:11.820
Brittany Laughlin: We don't want to be the sole carrier of that mission. We want to like find like either the thousand 10,000 people that we can

212
00:31:12.210 --> 00:31:22.050
Brittany Laughlin: Support who are helping that mission. And that's how we really scale and grow. So I do believe like the policies will need to be aligned with the mission. And we have some

213
00:31:22.920 --> 00:31:30.570
Brittany Laughlin: You know, we do have a voice like have feedback on that and kind of dark resources, depending on where we think that's happening, but it's

214
00:31:31.230 --> 00:31:45.630
Brittany Laughlin: You know, some bonuses on individuals or collectives of people to kind of scope out what exactly those policies look like and how they think they could be implemented or how they should be implemented, and then we can help greenlight stuff, but maybe not.

215
00:31:47.190 --> 00:31:57.690
Brittany Laughlin: Like we're dictating down, what should be done and then the community kind of accepts it's more trying to feed the grassroots. That makes sense. So that's, that's the way I envisioned it and I, you know,

216
00:31:59.490 --> 00:32:01.890
Brittany Laughlin: It's still early days us and upon stone yet either.

217
00:32:06.540 --> 00:32:11.280
Jenny: I like that what you said about feeding the grass roots Brittany. That makes sense to me.

218
00:32:16.530 --> 00:32:21.180
Jenny: So, and if there are any further comments on

219
00:32:23.670 --> 00:32:30.330
Jenny: On the how the working group would or what the working group would like to tackle and on the

220
00:32:31.350 --> 00:32:33.690
Jenny: Grant idea.

221
00:32:34.740 --> 00:32:42.870
Jenny: I'm wondering whether it would be good for us to talk about the cow, we want to start working on that. So, and it's

222
00:32:43.350 --> 00:32:52.620
Jenny: That it sounds like the grant ideas, totally, like, we totally have the green light on that something that we can apply for. Is there a platform for that yet me

223
00:32:55.080 --> 00:32:55.530
Brittany Laughlin: So,

224
00:32:55.560 --> 00:32:56.940
Brittany Laughlin: Coming soon we

225
00:32:57.390 --> 00:32:57.990
Brittany Laughlin: I just

226
00:32:59.430 --> 00:33:09.450
Brittany Laughlin: Started working with grant.io who built like an open source software platform. I will help like have a platform so people can apply for grant

227
00:33:09.960 --> 00:33:17.190
Brittany Laughlin: And so their delivery delivery date is within like the next two weeks. And so with that, it's basically a website where people can input.

228
00:33:18.180 --> 00:33:27.060
Brittany Laughlin: Their grant proposal, they can get feedback on their ideas. People can comment community. And so with that, coming up so quickly. I think that

229
00:33:27.510 --> 00:33:45.690
Brittany Laughlin: This would be a great group to kind of like help you know beta test that by you know obviously going through the grant process for like a real grant that they want to propose, but also on helping to kind of guinea pig. Just making sure that at all. It all works. And it all makes sense.

230
00:33:47.430 --> 00:33:56.880
Lane Rettig: If a question about the grant process. I mean, I'm sure I've said this before, I think it's a great starting point. I think it's a very concrete deliverable. I think it's something where this group could add value right out of the gate.

231
00:33:57.450 --> 00:34:06.810
Lane Rettig: But I think there's a couple ways it could work logistically, right. So, and I'm just a little unclear on kind of what what Jenny and Brittany what you're conceiving of here, right. One way is like

232
00:34:07.320 --> 00:34:19.020
Lane Rettig: What you just mentioned, Brittany, which is like we as a group, apply for a grant with some specific set of deliverables and a roadmap and all that. I think that makes sense. And it's probably worth doing, although we have to figure out what you know what what the usage of funds would be

233
00:34:20.520 --> 00:34:24.000
Lane Rettig: There's a second path, which is kind of like this group.

234
00:34:25.170 --> 00:34:36.000
Lane Rettig: Applies for a, like a meta grants for lack of a better word, and then intends to kind of like give some of that funding out to other projects as grants or a sub grants.

235
00:34:36.360 --> 00:34:41.280
Lane Rettig: And then there's like a third way of looking at it, which is that this group could help.

236
00:34:42.180 --> 00:34:49.590
Lane Rettig: steward, the grant process right help kind of projects or teams apply for grants help them prepare for that process help them get their kind of application in order

237
00:34:49.800 --> 00:34:58.080
Lane Rettig: Maybe even helped review the applications, but then the like final decision would be in the hands of the foundation. So this is different paths forward. I'm kind of wondering where you're at on those options.

238
00:34:58.560 --> 00:34:59.670
Jenny: Always thinking strictly of

239
00:34:59.670 --> 00:35:10.590
Jenny: Number one, and at least for the short the short term. So, in a few reasons for that. So there are outstanding issues that I think that

240
00:35:11.160 --> 00:35:20.790
Jenny: We as a community group know exists that we we want to tackle. And I think the progress on those issues have been slow and they are also funded

241
00:35:21.600 --> 00:35:28.620
Jenny: Mentally, you know, governance related issues and we talked about things like products and collections. And so, applying for grants ourselves would

242
00:35:29.370 --> 00:35:37.320
Jenny: empower us to work on those those issues. And, you know, come up with solutions for them and actually deliver that for the community. And I think that you

243
00:35:38.100 --> 00:35:46.830
Jenny: Know that is to Julius point to get often talks about serving the community and being a voice for the community. And I think that it would be really meaningful for us to start off that way.

244
00:35:47.550 --> 00:35:54.780
Jenny: After that first period, of course, I think that there is scope for using grants in many different ways. So

245
00:35:56.070 --> 00:36:05.310
Jenny: This group could potentially become a group that helps other other projects apply for grants or and, you know, allocate

246
00:36:06.120 --> 00:36:14.640
Jenny: Funding ourselves. I don't, I don't know whether we would feel comfortable doing that. But maybe that's how the group would evolve. But yeah, in my mind, I was strictly looking at the first option.

247
00:36:15.780 --> 00:36:22.260
Jenny: And applying for a grant ourselves to fund some work that we would like to get done in the next three to six months or so and

248
00:36:23.040 --> 00:36:30.270
Jenny: Sort of going off and going off of that work. So, you know, depending on how well we do there, maybe we would continue to apply for grants.

249
00:36:30.870 --> 00:36:43.200
Jenny: But you mentioned that some projects. Do you like a monthly grant and that is in that actually addresses some of the concerns that I've heard other community members have. So, you know, like I've talked to Dan about this group and

250
00:36:44.280 --> 00:36:47.490
Jenny: I think the the issue of like term limits came up right so

251
00:36:48.690 --> 00:36:56.220
Jenny: We could this group could have a symbolic power. But if the group isn't actually, you know, producing the work, then

252
00:36:57.870 --> 00:37:06.840
Jenny: You who holds them accountable for that. And I think that by, you know, having to reapply for granted, like a quarterly basis or sell that

253
00:37:08.040 --> 00:37:15.660
Jenny: A grant that is based on the kind of work that we're promising to deliver is that would hold us more accountable to the community.

254
00:37:17.730 --> 00:37:19.740
Jenny: Yeah, so that's where my head was that

255
00:37:22.350 --> 00:37:23.430
Lane Rettig: Makes sense. Thank you.

256
00:37:26.910 --> 00:37:29.970
Jenny: Did any did anyone else have a different idea, of how

257
00:37:30.300 --> 00:37:32.070
Jenny: Grants would be used and applied.

258
00:37:40.950 --> 00:37:42.510
Harold Davis: What you just mentioned made sense.

259
00:37:43.980 --> 00:37:44.370
Jenny: Great.

260
00:37:46.170 --> 00:37:48.840
Jenny: I guess. Well, I mean, that's really exciting for so long.

261
00:37:50.280 --> 00:38:00.750
Jenny: Because we just didn't talk about grants for a while and I ok so I guess like the next word for business and we have we have about 15 minutes but

262
00:38:01.140 --> 00:38:08.340
Jenny: It's talking about how we would like to work moving forward. So if, if our biggest issue here is that

263
00:38:09.150 --> 00:38:21.150
Jenny: You know, we, as a group, need to submit a proposal for grant. I'm assuming that all of our you know upcoming meetings would be around that. So putting our heads together to figure out what we

264
00:38:22.620 --> 00:38:32.550
Jenny: Want to put in that proposal and and Brittany once that platform is ready. I think there will probably be more guidance on the formatting of our proposal to right

265
00:38:32.610 --> 00:38:38.940
Brittany Laughlin: Yes, definitely. Yeah, so that's part of the launch in the in the work that's getting done so and

266
00:38:39.450 --> 00:38:54.000
Brittany Laughlin: And I think we talked about this, another come governance call, which is sort of setting expectations. So the goal is to have sort of a, like a beta grants program work grants will be in smaller size so you can apply for grant up to like five k

267
00:38:54.060 --> 00:38:55.350
Jenny: Is probably going to be the amount

268
00:38:55.770 --> 00:38:57.750
Brittany Laughlin: On. So that means like either scoping your project.

269
00:38:57.750 --> 00:38:59.070
Brittany Laughlin: To them out or if it's like

270
00:38:59.910 --> 00:39:02.100
Brittany Laughlin: You know, once you hit certain milestones, you can

271
00:39:02.190 --> 00:39:05.970
Brittany Laughlin: Have additional funding. So just trying to keep with like that.

272
00:39:06.120 --> 00:39:07.800
Brittany Laughlin: Start very small, but get the

273
00:39:07.800 --> 00:39:16.020
Brittany Laughlin: Process working and then once we know that the process is working well we can you know sort of ramp up like the size of grants and things that were time

274
00:39:18.030 --> 00:39:18.600
Jenny: Okay.

275
00:39:19.500 --> 00:39:20.100
Brittany Laughlin: Thanks for that.

276
00:39:20.640 --> 00:39:29.070
Jenny: And in Lincoln, Jason. You've done a lot of work on our just on the way that we work. So, and I wanted to get your thoughts on

277
00:39:31.560 --> 00:39:31.950
Jenny: How

278
00:39:32.970 --> 00:39:41.010
Jenny: You what still needs to be done there and how we want to balance that with this grant proposal that this group will now work on and whether like that.

279
00:39:41.760 --> 00:39:56.580
Jenny: That working in maintaining our repo and all of our tools should go into the proposal as well like as something that we want to treat as a deliverable so that other community members understand how to get involved to what are your thoughts there.

280
00:40:01.770 --> 00:40:04.770
Lane Rettig: Jason, I'd love to let you jump in here. First, if you're able to speak right now.

281
00:40:06.450 --> 00:40:16.290
Jason Schrader: Yeah, definitely. So as I'm as I'm listening along, you know, I feel like definitely the biggest part. I've been able to play in all this is just helping with that organization and structure.

282
00:40:16.290 --> 00:40:17.730
Jason Schrader: And I do feel like at this

283
00:40:17.730 --> 00:40:29.400
Jason Schrader: Point we we want to find a way to make this something that anybody could approach. Anybody can pick it up and anybody can do it. So it's not relying just on on myself or somebody else or

284
00:40:29.760 --> 00:40:39.090
Jason Schrader: Or anything like that. So when we're looking at, you know, this, this whole process and the early stages of the grants and a little bit of what I had put in some of the issues towards having like

285
00:40:39.390 --> 00:40:49.650
Jason Schrader: Small bounties or some sort of budget towards completing tasks I do feel like our first steps will be in this beta process, learning how to apply that together.

286
00:40:50.250 --> 00:40:58.800
Jason Schrader: So, you know, do we say, hey, we have a certain budget for notes updates for examples following meetings or just how I can better help organize and structure things is more what I'm

287
00:40:59.820 --> 00:41:01.950
Jason Schrader: Trying to key into as part of this conversation.

288
00:41:05.790 --> 00:41:08.400
Lane Rettig: So I agree with Jason, unsurprisingly, I just wanted to add that

289
00:41:09.480 --> 00:41:17.490
Lane Rettig: We've done quite a bit of the style of stuff that he's describing in theory in some of the groups. I've been a part of their and it's worked pretty well.

290
00:41:18.210 --> 00:41:23.340
Lane Rettig: one concrete example of this is Bitcoin. I'm not sure how many of you are familiar with the website or with the organization, but

291
00:41:23.580 --> 00:41:32.430
Lane Rettig: they facilitate bounties attached to things like GitHub issues that can be paid out in multiple cryptocurrencies etc so there's there's some established practice here that we can turn to

292
00:41:34.470 --> 00:41:35.730
Jenny: Yeah, definitely. And I think that

293
00:41:35.730 --> 00:41:48.510
Jenny: Bitcoin model has its had some issues with them our community members. But overall, people seem to really enjoyed that. So, and yeah, it could be a case of us sort of downloading all of the all the work that

294
00:41:49.470 --> 00:42:01.620
Jenny: You Jason has done for example and surfacing the areas that still need help and attaching bounties to to those areas if am I hearing you correctly, Jason in that interpretation.

295
00:42:02.910 --> 00:42:03.210
Jenny: Well,

296
00:42:03.240 --> 00:42:13.440
Jason Schrader: Both in that and in regular things moving forward. Like, for example, on our agenda here. We talked about, like, What would, what are the different community roles that could be assumed without having

297
00:42:13.470 --> 00:42:29.250
Jason Schrader: Too much complexity or requiring too much from any one actor, but when we look at somebody who's going to take notes or publish related items or, you know, what are the actionable items that something could be tied to so it's a you get your value back out of

298
00:42:29.250 --> 00:42:34.320
Jason Schrader: The, the time spent because time is that that one resource that we all only have so much of but

299
00:42:34.650 --> 00:42:44.490
Jason Schrader: At the same time, you know, we're here because we love this idea. We're here because we want to represent the community and it would be nice just to bring that full circle and give some value back

300
00:42:44.880 --> 00:42:51.450
Jason Schrader: From the project as well. So just trying to figure out how those things tie together and to complete those smaller action items.

301
00:42:54.810 --> 00:42:55.620
Jenny: Got it, okay.

302
00:43:01.740 --> 00:43:14.850
Jenny: Okay, so as a next step I this this was, you know, this call is scheduled so that we would have most of the time to talk about these issues, but we do have our regular Working Group calls as well.

303
00:43:15.630 --> 00:43:27.330
Jenny: So anyone have any major opinions on changing the time of our meeting and changing the frequency of our meetings and how we structure those meetings as well.

304
00:43:35.460 --> 00:43:39.060
Lane Rettig: I just want to add one very quick thought, which is that I think regularity is important I think.

305
00:43:40.410 --> 00:43:49.890
Lane Rettig: Even if not a lot is getting done on the calls even just the check in there going over the list of things having that on a sort of quote unquote official record.

306
00:43:50.850 --> 00:43:59.520
Lane Rettig: I think that that's really valuable for the community as a as a kind of permanent resource and as a foundation upon which you know kind of transparent accountable governance can be built.

307
00:44:04.770 --> 00:44:05.970
Jenny: Yeah, agreed being clean

308
00:44:07.710 --> 00:44:09.600
Juliet Oberding: I also agree with Lane.

309
00:44:10.800 --> 00:44:17.670
Juliet Oberding: I do, I have this urgent request that we not have it at 10am Eastern Time.

310
00:44:26.520 --> 00:44:27.540
Brittany Laughlin: More people can attend

311
00:44:27.810 --> 00:44:29.550
Lane Rettig: Just to throw an idea out here some

312
00:44:29.580 --> 00:44:31.830
Lane Rettig: Sometimes at this point in a conversation like this will

313
00:44:31.860 --> 00:44:36.450
Lane Rettig: Try to pick a better time and in my experience, that's very difficult because there's a lot of variables floating around.

314
00:44:37.260 --> 00:44:46.110
Lane Rettig: Maybe we just do the simplest possible thing and we circulate like a doodle or something and everyone can just fill in the times that they're available and we pick the one that everyone's available. Most. Just a thought.

315
00:44:49.230 --> 00:44:51.180
Jenny: Yeah, don't see an issue that we could totally do that.

316
00:44:52.260 --> 00:44:53.820
Jenny: And then we will circulate that today.

317
00:44:54.870 --> 00:44:55.590
Jenny: Thanks lane.

318
00:44:56.190 --> 00:45:00.480
Jenny: Yeah, it always comes up when we get folks involved from

319
00:45:02.760 --> 00:45:08.040
Jenny: Just even, you know, when folks are like 12 hours ahead so

320
00:45:09.090 --> 00:45:16.200
Jenny: You know this is going to be an ongoing issue. But for now, and we can cater to this particular groups interests or preferences.

321
00:45:19.980 --> 00:45:21.000
Juliet Oberding: Well, that is there.

322
00:45:21.840 --> 00:45:27.090
Juliet Oberding: Oh, sorry, Jason. Is there a. I know, I know there's like a standard time that is

323
00:45:27.450 --> 00:45:31.170
Juliet Oberding: That may be good for everybody, whether you're

324
00:45:31.650 --> 00:45:48.810
Juliet Oberding: Wherever you. I mean, there's always going to be a problem with with certain time zones, but is there one good time that that you found that that lane, but you found or that anyone's found that is a good time for meetings in the morning.

325
00:45:50.460 --> 00:45:50.760
Jenny: For

326
00:45:50.790 --> 00:45:58.500
Juliet Oberding: That so we could get participation from people and other places. I just wondered about that because I think Brittany brought that up so

327
00:45:59.220 --> 00:46:10.260
Lane Rettig: If I mean this is pretty pretty straightforward. If you want to be available to as broader swath of people as possible it inevitably ends up at 10 or 11 o'clock, New York Time. That's the

328
00:46:10.260 --> 00:46:11.670
Lane Rettig: Only option because that's already

329
00:46:12.000 --> 00:46:15.960
Lane Rettig: That's, that's, that's midnight in Japan. That's like you know 2am in Australia.

330
00:46:17.490 --> 00:46:23.310
Lane Rettig: Now, if we're trying to focus more regionally and say, Okay, we're trying to, you know, focus on North America, South America, we have more flexibility.

331
00:46:24.000 --> 00:46:29.760
Lane Rettig: There's two other options. Right. One is that we have two different calls. We have one for one set of time zones, one for another

332
00:46:30.120 --> 00:46:38.910
Lane Rettig: And the third possibility is that we rotate and we've done all of these things and like a theory and core Debs and we landed back on a single time slot every two weeks, but that doesn't mean we shouldn't experiment.

333
00:46:42.540 --> 00:46:49.590
Jenny: Yeah, I would. I would lean towards sort of leading to this group. And since we do sharp, sharp meetings consistently and

334
00:46:51.300 --> 00:46:56.940
Jenny: Yeah, pick a time based on the doodle that lane sends out. I find that I'm also pretty meeting free

335
00:46:57.990 --> 00:47:01.260
Jenny: For noon My time which is after 9am for Juliet. So

336
00:47:02.910 --> 00:47:12.180
Jenny: There's probably a time in there that that would work for you or that is comfortable but moving forward. This will definitely continue to be an issue and

337
00:47:13.560 --> 00:47:27.120
Jenny: You know, we're, we're a global community and we also believe in decentralization, so the hope there is that, you know, our working group grows to to the size where there are, you know, multiple leaders in different regions.

338
00:47:27.390 --> 00:47:34.590
Jenny: AND WE COULD HAVE WE COULD DO OUR WORK asynchronously and trust that other leaders and other regions are, you know,

339
00:47:35.190 --> 00:47:44.400
Jenny: Tackling the same issues that we're tackling and that we're all we're all aligned across our work streams. I think that we can sort of get to that bridge we can cross that bridge when we get to it.

340
00:47:45.150 --> 00:47:51.120
Jenny: But it's something to keep in mind. I think we do. I think it is important to be inclusive of, of all the community members involved.

341
00:47:52.980 --> 00:48:03.540
Lane Rettig: Jenny. I agree. One more super quick thought, which is that we talked about doing these town hall type things. And so those can those are another option and the bridge right, those can be held at different times that work better for people in different places or something.

342
00:48:05.490 --> 00:48:06.420
Jenny: Yeah, certainly.

343
00:48:08.520 --> 00:48:10.260
Jenny: We yeah we do the blocks at

344
00:48:10.320 --> 00:48:11.100
Jason Schrader: town halls, or

345
00:48:11.190 --> 00:48:12.240
Jenny: Are always at 10 and

346
00:48:12.540 --> 00:48:15.270
Jenny: When I was in California for four months. That was all whole

347
00:48:16.830 --> 00:48:19.560
Jenny: We got so much part. We've got so much attendance because

348
00:48:20.310 --> 00:48:30.180
Jenny: That time just works for so many different people. So, but if you know if you're doing it once a month. It's not an issue. Whereas you know for us if we're meeting weekly or even bi weekly. It can be a little tough.

349
00:48:31.170 --> 00:48:38.580
Jenny: Yeah, that's another option to consider just to even summarize our work and we don't talk about, you know, being able to work asynchronously.

350
00:48:39.210 --> 00:48:46.320
Jenny: More and as this group grows and we start to tackle different work streams so Julian. I know that you and I have talked about this, they're just

351
00:48:46.650 --> 00:49:00.690
Jenny: They're few different work streams that were there that we're working on. And I think that it's probably sufficient to have like a project management board or you know to do updates over email on on some work streams and but to come together on you know some major work streams.

352
00:49:02.010 --> 00:49:14.910
Jenny: So you know the the example being whatever we commit to you in our proposal. So let's say there are there are three major deliverables and those would be the issues that we would try to meet about regularly.

353
00:49:15.780 --> 00:49:25.320
Jenny: And any sort of sub work streams or issues, we could report on asynchronously, either in discord or on over email or forum or wherever we choose on GitHub.

354
00:49:30.570 --> 00:49:33.300
Jason Schrader: Yes, definitely. I agree with that and I think

355
00:49:33.540 --> 00:49:44.940
Jason Schrader: You hit the nail on the head with the asynchronous part that's something that we definitely have touched on before and I think as we expand and as we plan for this to be a larger group, it's going to be necessary for anything to progress and get done.

356
00:49:45.540 --> 00:49:55.440
Jason Schrader: And I also think it gives that that ability to split things up. You know, I think of the like the community evangelists call where we have one one time set for here and one time set for Asia.

357
00:49:55.830 --> 00:50:02.250
Jason Schrader: But the work and that the group does is all cohesive as well and can be considered together.

358
00:50:02.550 --> 00:50:07.740
Jason Schrader: And then the lanes point to, you know, the consistencies. It really is key as well to say like, Hey, you know, we have

359
00:50:08.070 --> 00:50:17.460
Jason Schrader: A list of issues or a list of set projects or deliverables. Here's where we get together, we discussed where we're at. We get a chance to voice any blockers and we get to keep moving.

360
00:50:17.730 --> 00:50:23.460
Jason Schrader: But the majority of the action could happen asynchronously versus having to focus on that part on the call.

361
00:50:23.790 --> 00:50:25.170
Jenny: Yeah, definitely.

362
00:50:26.760 --> 00:50:28.140
Jenny: Okay, so

363
00:50:28.260 --> 00:50:34.530
Jenny: Just have a couple minutes left, so I as a next step lane, you're going to send out that doodle. And we're going to pick

364
00:50:35.070 --> 00:50:40.680
Jenny: A new time it can, could it could be the same time, but we're going to pick on the time to stick with

365
00:50:41.370 --> 00:50:48.840
Jenny: For our next meeting. And do we feel like we should meet again this week, or do we want to take this week to process and

366
00:50:49.410 --> 00:50:57.150
Jenny: And actually, maybe this is an opportunity to do some work asynchronously as well since where we all know that the big deliverable for us is

367
00:50:57.720 --> 00:51:01.770
Jenny: Putting together a proposal for a grant. So maybe we can take this week to

368
00:51:02.640 --> 00:51:15.840
Jenny: Put together some borrowing thoughts and notes are. And I'm also happy to meet again, based on the times that we choose. So I guess it's just up to the group, which should we meet this week, based on the doodle results or wait until next week.

369
00:51:22.320 --> 00:51:31.530
Jason Schrader: I am definitely open to what everybody wants to do on that. The other thing I am curious about too is, you know, do we like the one week or the two week the bi weekly schedule.

370
00:51:32.700 --> 00:51:37.290
Jason Schrader: And is that something that we wanted to discuss now or as part of this next meeting.

371
00:51:39.030 --> 00:51:39.450
Lane Rettig: So,

372
00:51:40.680 --> 00:51:49.560
Lane Rettig: This has already evolved from a doodle into a Google form that's going to include that as a question. So feel free to discuss it now or we can wait till we have some data and see what people say. Sure.

373
00:51:49.590 --> 00:51:51.540
Jason Schrader: Sure, happy to make it more complicated.

374
00:52:00.660 --> 00:52:14.340
Jenny: Okay. And yeah, I think that um you know we're should we move forward with like a bi weekly cadence and we'd probably just have to get really good at setting action items and checking in on those action items.

375
00:52:14.970 --> 00:52:24.240
Jenny: Because we with the grant.io platform up and running soon will probably want to submit some to Brittany Did you have like a

376
00:52:24.810 --> 00:52:34.200
Jenny: Did you mention this earlier night I missed it. But did you have a timeline in mind for when this group could start submitting or, you know, power, they could we actually submit

377
00:52:35.400 --> 00:52:40.410
Brittany Laughlin: Yeah, well, I'm happy. You know, before the platform is up and running as we can get more informally, but I'm

378
00:52:41.550 --> 00:52:50.400
Brittany Laughlin: Yeah, I have a sort of just early template of the report, like the questions for grants. And so I can share that probably

379
00:52:51.060 --> 00:52:56.100
Brittany Laughlin: By Friday. I'm like what that looks like. I just want to get feedback from few folks individually and then

380
00:52:56.490 --> 00:53:05.940
Brittany Laughlin: I'll be able to share that. So that would be like the draft like what needs to be in the proposal and, and I think, you know, the goal is to have it be short and efficient.

381
00:53:06.420 --> 00:53:14.760
Brittany Laughlin: But you know people who would apply for a grant would be the layout, like what is the grant for, like, how does this help further the mission. What are the deliverables of this grant like

382
00:53:15.150 --> 00:53:19.140
Brittany Laughlin: The measures of success. So basically, a, you know, an outline with that but

383
00:53:19.560 --> 00:53:28.950
Brittany Laughlin: It's there's ideas on that sooner. Like, then the platform. We can talk about it. And then the application but happened with the popcorn slide which like I said, the deliverable.

384
00:53:29.670 --> 00:53:39.660
Brittany Laughlin: From granted I oh should be in two weeks. I think that's July 30 is the deliverable date. But we'll have to, like, just make sure it's all been testing stuff. So maybe after

385
00:53:40.110 --> 00:53:51.360
Brittany Laughlin: I think august 3 is a Monday. So maybe not on the third or fourth to be smithy but happy to talk about it like before that, too. So you don't feel like wait until that date to

386
00:53:53.730 --> 00:53:54.060
Brittany Laughlin: Okay.

387
00:53:54.780 --> 00:53:56.130
Jenny: Thanks for me. Yeah, I think I'm

388
00:53:56.220 --> 00:54:08.130
Jenny: Okay, so in addition to lean doodle, but I can do is I can start a collaborative doc for us to just to put down our rough ideas about you know what this group should look like. I think it's totally fine that we don't have

389
00:54:09.210 --> 00:54:23.970
Jenny: A super clear cut answer for you know definitively what this group is going to do and what you know what it stands for. But it's worth getting everyone's thoughts raw thoughts on paper and refining. From there, because it sounds like we have time to do that.

390
00:54:25.530 --> 00:54:33.690
Jenny: Okay, so yeah. Next Steps lane lanes Google Form actually and collaborative doc for me. Anything else that I'm missing everyone

391
00:54:41.250 --> 00:54:42.720
Jenny: Well, not

392
00:54:42.750 --> 00:54:55.440
Jason Schrader: Not that not directly for me. But if there is any feedback. We need on the action items or any of the agenda items or, you know, anything that we've set prior into moving things into this next phase. I'm definitely happy to help with that. I just wanted to voice that.

393
00:54:57.090 --> 00:54:58.860
Jenny: Oh, great. Yeah, I am.

394
00:55:00.870 --> 00:55:03.030
Jenny: Is there any if you have like, you know,

395
00:55:04.830 --> 00:55:15.210
Jenny: Overview type notes. Jason of of what like could help you there. Maybe that would be helpful and sending those to the discord channel and sure

396
00:55:16.500 --> 00:55:16.740
Jason Schrader: Okay.

397
00:55:16.950 --> 00:55:17.580
Jason Schrader: Yep, that's

398
00:55:17.610 --> 00:55:18.390
Jenny: That's all I can think of.

399
00:55:19.110 --> 00:55:30.660
Jenny: Otherwise, we're just, we're a minute over, but I think that's pretty good. Given this was like a very big discussion so looking forward to next meeting, everyone. Thank you so much for productive conversation.

400
00:55:32.640 --> 00:55:33.450
Jenny: Likewise. Thank you.

401
00:55:34.080 --> 00:55:34.620
Thank you can

402
00:55:36.600 --> 00:55:37.530
Take everybody

