# 20200401 Governance Working Group Meeting

Juliet (@jmoberding) is hosting the meeting today.

## Standups! What are you working on?

### Jason

Quick updates, been working in github, updating the icon across outlets, trying to keep up with it all. No blockers at this time.

### Jenny

Considering distribution channels for survey, possibly using a Blockstack email list, looking into that and other ways we can up our numbers.

### Lane

Posted updates in the pm repo, mentioned that when there are a lot of people with a lot of updates, may want to move to an async format (on github or similar). Reviewing the governance research notes that Brittany shared, great insights. On the survey up to 32 responses (22 + 8 from working group), fantastic progress in percentage terms but a long way to go.

On the last call - the proposal was monolithic and has now been split into separate issues that can stand on their own. There a bunch of issues in a new respostiory and intend for this to grow into a larger body of proposals over time, and how it fits into the SIPs.

https://github.com/stacksgov/proposals and https://github.com/stacksgov/proposals/issues

Lane got the ok on all interviews, publishing under the resources repo, next things are recording best practices, and thinking about SIP governance and how it fits into the big picture.

### Juliet

Been looking at the info we have in the one on one interviews, everything that Lane's posted, as well as what Brittany's posted, so there's quite a bit of great info to dive into. Seeing there is an overall area that we as participants in the working group can get involved and take ownership on different areas as we move forward. Really excited with where things are headed.

### Phillip

Trying to get awareness of what's going on in other blockchain communities, lots of work reading and understanding, without experience in each community we have to look at their experiences. Trying also to promote new community that we have in Chile / Latin America to get people involved in Blockstack and to fill out the survey - looks like some showed up!

Also read through some of the interviews completed already and how they relate to governance. The interview can help us as a base for other work, too. (Lane) has interviewed people very important to blockstack and info can be used for other purposes. That's more or less it - time passes so quick.

## Community Survey

Juliet: Lane - anything to add aside from the earlier update?

Lane: kind of a game of wait and see, don't think it makes too much sense to dive into the results we have now, probably some minimum number we want to connect. There probably are some patterns and meaningful data. Results are landing in a Google Sheet that can be shared but contains sensitive info like emails. When do we want to begin trying to analyze this data? Wait for min number of responses? Do that now?

Jason: effort right now should go toward expanding the respondents, can build a framework, but time better spent on growing responses.

Lane: agreed

Juliet: agree with moving that number closer to 100 responses

Phillip: counted 180 people on discord, not sure on telegram, want to make sure we aren't pinging people too often, but how are we addressing the stackers? how are we addressing blockchain.com people? Having 100/180 people answer will be a challenge. Out of 500 people 100 is easier to get.

Lane: I'm sure there are thousands / tens of thousands we can reach to, maybe Jenny can help more, but we should be able to reach the broader community.

Jenny: I wonder if there is enough exposure for what we do as a working group, maybe create a blog post and link to it in an email to raise awareness. So much of the work we are doing is really interesting, so whether they are interested int he survey or not, they would be interested. Are we ready for that?

Lane: I think it's a great idea. It was part of the original roadmap to share with the community, some of that was accomplished by the forum post Brittany made, happy to work on this and write up a blog post.

Phillip: would be a good idea.

Juliet: I like this idea as well, happy to help Lane with the content.

Lane: can start with a framework and we can take it from there. Jenny if this should be released before email goes out, we can talk about timing.

Jenny: responses we have so far is excitement and interest, making that available to the wider community can only be a good thing

Juliet: anything else on the community survey? If not we will move on to one on one interviews.

## One on One Interviews

Lane: 3 have been published, should be done by the next call, there were 8 total so far. Best thing is for folks to read them when they have time. 2 asks from him:

- think about whether we want to keep doing more of them, happy to do more, others can contribute and can expand as a community effort. Did something similar in Ethereum to try and interview 100 developers, actually got to 150 and the information collected was an incredibly rich resource across a lot of topics.
- would it make sense to do more of these, and if so, how?

Can create a document pointing to themes he's seen in the past, how to collect results and make them actionable.

Juliet: that sounds fantastic, as you did with Ethereum, find new themes, use that to find new products and methods, great insight into where we are now, where we can go, and a pulse of the community

Lane: one more ask:

- tried his best to be scientific by asking the same questions in the same order, what would you do differently? Ask different questions, different order, etc. Will post the template for collaboration.

Phillip: very rich, wonderful to have more of them with people from different parts of the world. China, Hong Kong, Singapore, to get to know what they are thinking about. It's a lot of work and can see that in your notes, congratulations for that work.

Lane: thank you, glad someone has read through them

Juliet: thank you for the interviews, and for taking the time

Lane: thank you to everyone who participated, learned a lot!

## Preliminary Governance Proposal

Juliet: Lane do you have anything else you would like to share on the preliminary governance proposal?

Lane: Juliet thank you for pulling info into the agenda doc for this call, will repost the link here just in case. 5 minutes to quickly walk through this.
- scope of governance: good starting point, happy it's first in the document, before we try to govern things it's helpful to talk about what we want to govern. What is in scope and out of scope, bit of an open question. Some things for sure: there will be a foundation or entity. We know it's in scope, PBC is out of scope, but there are some gray areas and would love to get everyone's input.
- challenges: not specific to Blockstack, summary of things seen and learned and understood participating in governance of other projects, and in having conversations with people.
- case studies: a placeholder, the document that Brittany shared has some rich info on this topic, he's happy to fill in his opinions on each entity from the list but also would like to crowdsource the info to see the results. Cryptogov link is doing something similar (included in the repo)
- principles: trying to bear in mind as we design governance, not the "shared principles" or "shared values" of the community. keeping things simple, minimum viable governance. I'll stop there based on the agenda but there is plenty more on Github.
- quick note: some stuff is missing, around the foundation and stuff, until some of the decisions are made like jurisdiction there is no reason to start debating / discussing things until more is finalized.

Lane: others can watch the repo, get email notifications on changes.

Lane's ask: code of conduct, haven't written anything down yet, that's a great one people can dive into and add content.

Juliet: would be glad to help out with code of conduct, something she is passionate about, thank you for putting everything on github for the proposal. we all have a lot to dive in and think about. apologize if everything isn't in the document as we move through it on the call, but very excited to see it all yesterday. Over the next week we should all take a look at it, add some thoughts to it, and maybe dive into it next week.

Lane: thank you for everyone's patience, came up on a few previous calls, happy to talk on calls or async on github, if people feel we need more time to go deeper into any of these things we can schedule a separate deeper dive.

Phillip: the covenant, for forking and dividing and such, one of the aspects we have to think about how to maintain that unity (mentioned in an interview)

Juliet: any other thoughts or comments on the preliminary proposal? If not we will move on to the stacks foundation update from Brittany.

## Stacks Foundation Update

Brittany: delayed this morning talking to legal counsel about foundation setup, still reviewing different jurisdictions, getting smart on taxes, board members, meeting setups. Good exercise because originally just looking at the jurisdictions based on requirements of where members are, but there is this underlying stuff with tax. For example, we learned that the singapore foundation would need an offshore entity to give out grants to the network without paying large sums of tax against it. A lot of complication in that, just trying to get up to speed. Singapore foundation is on the table, but also looking at US non-profit entity. Call with Deloitte on tax implications. The goal is how do we best serve the community, which means providing resources around education, building up the network, fellowships, grants, outlining, all of those activities are what we are trying to opitmize for. Because it is related to cash inflow and outflow, want to make sure it isn't limited.

Zcash is a US non-proft, Algorand is a singapore foundation, want to make sure the mission can actually be completed on the tax side. Should be done this week, that's why it's taking longer, expecially trying to get expert opinions on a new industry.

Board members. Entities require different numbers to form and create the entity. Minimum number of board numbers, she will be executive director and will leave PBC, will help create the initial entity. Then how the additional board members are added, started adding thoughts, "what makes us a good board". Making sure we reflect the community in which we operate, stakeholders represented, the community voice heard, and the expertise we need: open source, legal/financial, crypto-specific expertise, even acadamia expertise. Working with this group here thinking about the types of qualities and skill sets that would make the community thrive because the expertise is on the board. Set up a skeleton and use that over the next 6 months to 1 year trying to fill those positions. That is one of the key things at top of mind.

The other thing is the idea of learning from Zcash and their community advisory board. Able to do a number of things for and with the community, including ways to raise issues, vote on issues, issues reviewed and approved by board, and in Zcash case, board hasn't needed to intervene or veto. Represents a flexible and itneresting way to think of the governance of the foudation instead of getting caught up in board members, and gives power back to the community. Not sure if others have looked at Zcash yet, but she's excited about it and encourages everyone in our group to start thinking about how we want to implement this.

The other component becoming clear: what will they do first? The Stacks Improvement Proposals are a target. The SIP proposals are submitted to the process, reviewed/commented on by engineers, and accepted. That whole process will be moved over to the foundation. That's where I think we can actually see the governance at work. How are we going to do this. What info is required. Lane has a lot of experience with Ethereum and proposal process, how can we borrow the best of what's out there and make sure it serves our community? That's another place where the group can be very helpful. Curious to hear how we can collaborate together to make this the best process possible.

Juliet: thank you for all the work you're doing, I'm sure it's hard given the times we are in, great to hear about each of these areas and particularly about the community idea and looking further into Zcash and other organizations for what we want to include moving forward. Any questions or discussion about what Brittany raised today?

Phillip: it's a lot of work! it's not only technology we are developing, but also legal, interaction of community. not just a wonderful way to have your data in a private way. Congratulations for all the work that's been done.

Brittany: thank you, appreciate everyone here contributing and having patience, we start solving a problem and find 10 more that have to be solved first. through this process realized the faster we can share with this community the more value we can have together. teaming up brains.

Lane: curious to ask, so much wonderful information in the notes she shared, do you still have big outstanding questions at this stage or is most of that info ready to move forward? Like jurisdiction, structure, etc.

Brittany: most immediate question around jurisdiciton, lots of different setup pieces done in short order, having the call this afternoon with CFO and Deloitte because there's a tie between PBC and the foundation, money to start the foundation, impacts both sides. Some financial data that has to be discussed so will not have community on this call. In the next day talking to legal counsel and tax counsel around different entities, the impact, and how to deliver on what they want to accomplish. Don't have the aboslute answer yet but sounds like Singapore or US.

Other piece around that, once we set up the foundation, how to best represent the community and the foundation publicly. will it have a website? run it as a community? create our own channels of communication? goal is to be very clear, very regular with updates. If there are better ways to make info clear. Feels like everything is moving in the right direction.

Juliet: thank you Brittany, some of the things you raised particularly the thought about communications and best place to put things, whether what we are doing now is fine, one thing on her mind is that we have a great group here she would love to hear some additional voices, bringing more people in, how to do that moving forward. Can continue working on week over week. Excited to hear the steps taken and the jurisdiction issues, and now considering US versus Singapore, looking forward to seeing where we land on that. Any other questions for Brittany?

Juliet: that's the agenda moving forward, we have some time, Harold, did you want to talk about some of the work you're doing and how it dovetails with what we are doing? would you like to give us a summary?

## Harold's Update

Harold: Dovetails mainly through Primavera De Fillipi's work, has put a bunch of research into blockchain space. She talks about a "social layer" in blockchain, the technology in and of itself requires an additional social layer so the purpose of decentralization is not defeated. In the future there is a basin of attraction toward wealth and power, and blockchain represents a way to usher in a new socio-economic order and structure we haven't seen yet. Also down the road, how vicious concentration of wealth and power can be when the visibility of who has the power becomes opaque.

What blockchain can also give us is this new form of concentration of wealth. We have a responsibility being able to establish an adequate social layer that can do what the distributed infrastructure is trying to do in order to distribute power on the social layer. Recently in her work, the concept of what are viable approaches that are outside of a conventional context. There are these basins of attraction in conventional governance structures. Harold's been working with an indigenous council and Primavera has mentioned these might be good alternatives to look to in order to achieve authentically new socio-economic structures.

With blockstack, this is a very unique community, and technology that's being built up for its implications in international trade. This could be a bump in global GDP. Unique space because of what the internet enables, IoT, blockchain, etc. Blockstack has great integrity, could leverage this unique opportunity, along with dialog with indigenous councils and had the privilege of making contact. There are also some juris prudence things that have some implications.

For example, this council has held onto nation status in a very unique way that goes back to the 1600s. Thomas Jefferson and Abraham Lincoln sat on this council. Some of the things he's been thinking about as we select board members and those who can direct the future. It's a unique opportunity to attract people like Primavera de Fillipi and the Two Wampum Social Layer Platform, and their consensus decision making forms. Viable altenatives to the western concepts of governance.

Been coordinating some meetings, trying to make their connection, talked to Tomás Díez of FabAcademy. They are interested in establishing a "fab chain" and interested in Blockstack because of what they can do within the digital fabrication process including inventory and material development. The revitalization of indigenous modes of production. As we research into sustainable modes of development so we don't get things like plastics that do a lot of harm. A lot of sustainable modes have been forgotten.

A lot of the mentors in this network come from prestigious backgrounds and have a passion about sustainability in different industries. Could come from architecture, fashion, other backgrounds but pool their research toward this digital fabrication network. It come sout of MIT and allows for distributed training. Tomás Díez is a contact we've made who is close to Primavera - she actually mentioned some of what he said earlier regarding fab city.

Juliet: quick note - we are at 8:03, if people have to jump that's understood. Interested in setting up a meeting with Tomás and potentially Primavera, interested in where we can go with that and how the working group can help.

Harold: the link he shared, anyone interested in what we are trying to coordinate can get involved, excited for as many contributions as possible. the thing that also gave me the confidence to introduce this was Friedger's mention of 100% consensus and environmental protections going into the future. When a forum post was first made about the foundation he brought it up, and sparked in (Harold's) mind of indigenous approaches to governance and management, and the approach to long-term dynamics. Been exposed through Generative Justice group out of RPI, done a lot of work on basins of attractions, chaos theory, coordination over competititon, and things like this. Big part of the thesis is the various indigenous groups they made contact with.

A unique type of autonomy between diplomatic relationships that allows for that flag to fly on international waters. In the context of an independent entity, may make for a unique structure for our governance, and this one is an example becuase other indigenous councils have lost their nationhood status. Feel there are some legal advantages that the blockstack community coul dbe afforded with a dialog with this partciular council.

There's a whole lot less beauracracy involved, if you want to talk to council and do nation things, any thoughts on those particular legal items and obviously a tremendous amount of need for what Brittany is doing in the non-profit context of the entity and legal jurisdictions that falls within nations. A trans-national approach to the entity that offers different community structures to organize and provide guidance to the community. A beautiful opportunity. Indigenous context a big step forward in responsibilities in the blockchain space, and what the implications are in production, manufacturing, and distribution. It's an intersting step in the right direction looking at the historical fires in Austrailia nad groups claiming to be here for 60,000 years and their voices aren't heard. They want to protect the environment of that partciular land. Hard to forge the relationships necessary given the geography, and this poses a unique opporutnity in that context.

Friedger brought up in a forum post - 100% consensus, environmental protections, structures may be hard with the beautiful ideas for the advisory board and others, interesting to see what the indigenous protocols that are entrenched in protection to all these things. Curious to see the structural and legal advantages with this type of relationship.

Juliet: thank you, glad to hear a bunch of this, and happy to see how the community can participate and learn more. old article: "A separate jurisdicton for cyber space", talks about law of the sea, different type of a legal system, and similar subjects. Thank you for the time and opportunity and for stepping up to bring this to our attention.

Jason: question on how this fits into the picture, as a replacement to what Brittany is doing in forming the foundation, or in addition to.

Harold: necessary to do what Brittany doing, juris prudence of the nation, maybe a second entity where the community can have this dialog and learn another avenue for 100% consensus decision making, same as Friedger mentioned, a big part of what the indigenous do now. Matrilineal protocols you won't find in a lot of cases due to lost ceremonies, traditions. This particular council has a 2,000+ year oral constitution in place. This type of dialog will be important and can inform the advisory board, sounds like a great way to include people, the Two Row Wampum is a reference to two autonomous entities to speak peacefully and was used to unite nations before the arrival of European settlers. See the relationship in that light.

Jenny: had this idea to do less technical AMAs in the channel, would you be interested in doing the AMA? puts pressure to answer questions correctly, maybe it could be more open dialog style? She knows she would be interested, getting flash backs to seminars of philosophy in college, deeper questions to ask and broader discussion offline if you want to have a dialog with the larger community.

Harold: yeah, that sounds like a beautiful idea, it would be quite a bit of pressure to answer correctly but he does have a relationship with the council over the last year and maybe they will be interested as well.

Juliet: thank you Harold for sharing, thank you Jenny for the AMA idea, exciting for all of us to hear the work that the indigenous groups have been doing thousands of years. Thank you everyone - appreciate your participation, Brittany and Lane for their hard work. Anyone else have anything to add? If not then I think we are done!

## Resources from Zoom Chat

Lane: my full update is here https://github.com/stacksgov/pm/issues/19#issuecomment-607256228

Juliet: meeting agenda https://docs.google.com/document/d/1Lr9zOLWO5Xtg31M-dKaVXREYcyQn_zCepwPlErD3pvg/edit

Lane: issues for proposals https://github.com/stacksgov/proposals/issues

Lane: CoC https://github.com/stacksgov/proposals/issues/11

Jason: Great resource from Harold https://github.com/HaroldDavis3/Two-Row-Wampum-Social-Layer-Platform

Harold: prep for meeting with Tomás/Primavera https://paper.dropbox.com/doc/Meeting-wTomas-DiezPrimavera-Connection--AxQRoPOExiEYKch18f7NDCDzAQ-vgftHgoR26II8R3CGpi4h
