# 20200610 Governance Working Group Call 16

Lane Rettig: Okay, everybody. Thanks for joining. This is everyone call number 16 today is Wednesday, June 10
Lane Rettig: I will go ahead and share the link to the agenda here again, just in case anyone
Lane Rettig: didn't already have it open.
Lane Rettig: A. Philip. Thanks for joining your company.
Lane Rettig: So let's
Lane Rettig: I'm just going to kind of move down the agenda in order like we usually do here how it's been a while since I've done one of these feeling, Rusty.
Lane Rettig: Okay, so we'll start with getting
Good morning.
Lane Rettig: Yeah, so we usually kick off our calls with stand ups and for anyone who wants to share it would be helpful to hear what you've been working on.
Lane Rettig: If there's anything anyone on the call can help with or any any blockers and what you intend to be empty for next week. Does anyone want to start with a stand up.
Phillip Roe: I'm been studying
Phillip Roe: Reviewing all the resources that was well put with Jason well organized. So I've been taking up, you know, the, you know, reading, reading now and and I was wondering if we could get some of the principles also the
Phillip Roe: Behavior, or I said the rules of
Phillip Roe: behavior or conduct. I don't remember the name that was in English, but you know if we can get something that one when
Phillip Roe: They take
Phillip Roe: Take up take
Phillip Roe: What's in the phrasal verb that there has been user takeover. Don't take take up something like that, it was
Phillip Roe: That actually the this the some principles that that box Tech has managed to to create that the people want to maintain
Phillip Roe: And so that those are the things that you can see the reaction of the people that have come into the community that they they see something that the SEO value and then they happy and they said, this is only the only community that
Phillip Roe: They have a failed welcome and they felt
Phillip Roe: That you know that,
Phillip Roe: There's something that
Phillip Roe: The values that people are happy and and that's something that we have to see how we capture that in a, in a way that we don't lose that. And, well, that's my my my reflection of what I have been really, of course, this much more than that. But that that's something very, very important.
Phillip Roe: And also that when he was trying to also to to capture that and put it in that
Phillip Roe: Letter to the BBC. Please, or as a collaborator, you know that were to protect and be be helping you know whatever needs people have. Because of this, all this problems over racism and hatred.
Lane Rettig: Thank you.
Lane Rettig: very timely and important message. I appreciate that. Thanks for sharing some of what you've been reading
Lane Rettig: For anyone who joined the call late. We're just going around and doing stand ups for anyone who wants to share what they've been working on or what they will be working on over the next few days. Does anyone else want to come to stand up.
Jason Schrader: If I could find the right buttons. There we go. Okay, so yeah I raised I raised it to that link.
Jason Schrader: So fill out. Thank you for that I shared the link two months post from the forums. So that was on the recent injustices in the US.
Jason Schrader: And I do agree. One thing I've seen as well and discord is definitely anybody coming into the community really praises the community for how we support each other how we work with each other and
Jason Schrader: I think the more we can keep up that energy, the better off we will all be so definitely appreciate that.
Jason Schrader: And from my side I've finally been catching up a few of those things and get have like those resources, you mentioned Philip and I plan to get in touch with you this week, just as our schedule allows we can go a little bit over how
Jason Schrader: I would do the notes for one of the calls or something like that. And I think in going through it with you. It's going to help me. Look at the
Jason Schrader: standard operating procedures that we have and make sure things are fully updated there.
Jason Schrader: And also ties into our governance landing page. So we have a few kind of issues that are all intertwined. And I think that answering some of them will
Jason Schrader: Really give people an easier way to jump in and be involved as well. So that's basically what I'm going to work towards this week and I don't have any blockers at this time on my side.
Lane Rettig: Thanks, Jason, just to be clear, that's something that you and Philip was it are going to follow up on separately or did you have something to talk about on the call today. I wasn't totally sure
Jason Schrader: Sure. So last week, you know, I was just giving an open call to everybody to say hey you know if you want to learn more about how to do the notes or how to do anything in GitHub, really, I'm very happy to help and teach
Jason Schrader: So just to echo that, again, he was the one who replied to me directly, and said, I'm on board. So I want to reach out to him and help, but that is open to anybody. So definitely anybody out there, feel free to reach out. I'm always happy to help.
Lane Rettig: And did you want to try to save time for that on the call today, or is that something that you guys are planning to follow up separately.
Jason Schrader: Will do that separately.
Lane Rettig: Cool.
Phillip Roe: Thank you.
Lane Rettig: All right. Anyone else want to do a status update
Jenny Mith: Sure, I can do a quick one. So I've mentioned
Jenny Mith: This project a few times before. So one of our key managers Ross and I have been working on ways to and
Jenny Mith: I guess overhaul or revamp the way that our community takes on moderation. So I've talked a little bit about
Jenny Mith: How we envision that looking on discord potentially the forum and get hub moving forward and we feel pretty good about a plan for for discord. We were inspired by stack overflows theory of moderation and we should have
Jenny Mith: A pretty good MVP by by next week of first of all the different levels of privileges that we think community members can
Jenny Mith: Can have and obviously we would get feedback from community members, but there's world rusted also be building out a box and there would be
Jenny Mith: A channel dedicated to like an audit log to show moderation and we think this is pretty important to day to day governance and the way that community members make decisions.
Jenny Mith: Themselves and it's it's just like a really great step toward autonomy and decentralization and my instinct is that once we have
Jenny Mith: A document outline that we feel comfortable about an MVP for next week. This is something that we'd love to experiment with with like a core group of community members 20 to 30 people to see if it works. So I will give you all an update.
Jenny Mith: On that actually happened in our scheduled to come to the governance working group and show you all what we have outlined, just to get your thoughts.
Jenny Mith: And try to do like a two week experiment to see if it works for committee members and get feedback on what we can change before actually implementing it. So I'm pretty excited about that.
Lane Rettig: Thanks journey. Yeah, I'm excited to I think that that's a really
Lane Rettig: Awesome concrete thing that the governance working group can hopefully get involved with
Lane Rettig: Is clear value in the community as well. It's also in line with the code of conduct which Philip mentioned a moment ago, and
Jenny Mith: It's great. Yeah, absolutely.
Jenny Mith: Yeah, I'm curious to see what what folks think about and
Jenny Mith: How the Code of Conduct can apply and how people can sort of sight and bits from the code of conduct to justify their actions when they're actually moderating and discord.
Lane Rettig: I haven't actually read the theory of moderation, folks.
Lane Rettig: That you mentioned that I'm going to go ahead and drop the link here is
Lane Rettig: Wow, that
Lane Rettig: looks a little funny. It looks like a really helpful resource. So thanks for sharing that as well. Update.
Lane Rettig: Any other signups
Brittany Laughlin: I'm happy to convey mine into the foundation of day, but I'll wait. And just to make sure that there's no one else
Lane Rettig: Just do mine super briefly, then yeah so I
Lane Rettig: Spent some time continuing to work on the my own analysis is the right word analysis report and the results of the survey as far as I'm concerned, that's done.
Lane Rettig: And so I posted the link for that.
Lane Rettig: Get more relevant issue. I'll drop that here in a second as well for anyone who may not have seen it yet.
Lane Rettig: Again, yeah. I mean, please feel free to take a look like jump in contribute to it. It's a Google Doc that has a comment and turned on so you can share your comments, they're
Lane Rettig: Also just closing off some other loose threads on the survey. So I posted as well. A link and get hub, which will also drop here to
Lane Rettig: The wrong results which I both anonymized and randomize as a Google Sheet. I think that those should be archived somewhere into our knowledge base or and get on, probably. So that's an issue. I opened and then yeah, with with Jason just tying off some loose threads on on on GitHub.
Lane Rettig: I close the project word for phase one, because I think I think Phase one is behind us. And so I've been thinking a lot about
Lane Rettig: Things longer term tasks that do this work and work on in the future. And so I made a list of those open an issue. And I think that's on the agenda separately. So I'll
Lane Rettig: Defer till we get that will appoint
Lane Rettig: No specific lockers and
Lane Rettig: I guess just continuing to figure out, think about the role of this working group and how we can add value in the future. Thanks, I guess, unless someone else wants to jump in with an update, Brittany, feel free to give yours.
Brittany Laughlin: Sure. So the things working on this week, or just around the
Brittany Laughlin: Priorities for Q1, or Q2, Q3 from the foundation so kind of putting together just what the organization as a whole will be kind of working towards and
Brittany Laughlin: I'm going to put that as a forum posts are you have that drafted. I just need to hit publish and so that folks can, you know, add feedback or ask questions.
Brittany Laughlin: And that's what that is. So that's something that will be going out and within the those deliverables. One of the things is this call for board nominations
Brittany Laughlin: And so we continue to have nominations were coming in. People are able to nominate more than one person.
Brittany Laughlin: We fix that in our box survey so that you know if you run into that issue before it's now open and available and the current information sort of plan on that is that the first board meeting will be in
Brittany Laughlin: June end of June 2020 and at that board meeting, that's when we'll sort of fully make the
Brittany Laughlin: Foundation operational including like accepting the bylaws accepting the initial board members and then after that point we can determine, you know, potentially having
Brittany Laughlin: Any new nominated board members be part of the following board meeting. So the first one is just like very much setup and make sure it's running but anything to do with adding new board members or going through the process for vetting these nominations would happen after that point.
Brittany Laughlin: Or in parallel to that point, that just nothing's going to happen that quickly. I guess with adding new board members.
Brittany Laughlin: So that's the epic there in terms of the next steps for what the board nomination is so we have nominees. Now, what is the process for kind of
Brittany Laughlin: Making those public and known. I think that is a discussion, maybe on the forum that I can take over there, we can kind of discuss in more detail. So I think message on discord and then bring that back to the forum.
Brittany Laughlin: That's my update and if there's any questions on that. Happy to take us now. Or we can leave this team discussion.
Lane Rettig: I just have a quick question.
Jason Schrader: Yeah, thank you. I, I was curious, you shared with us a little ways back a draft of the bylaws, and we were talking a little bit about that. Or there's going to go up to a place
Jason Schrader: For community comment as well.
Brittany Laughlin: Yeah. Yeah, absolutely. So with the bylaws.
Brittany Laughlin: You know, we had sort of a generic bylaws, which most nonprofits us and
Brittany Laughlin: You know, you can look publicly on Z cash. Those are the exact same as the ones that we were given by our legal counsel and so we can either make those amendments before we accept the bylaws or after the bylaws are put into place so I can share that, I guess.
Brittany Laughlin: I don't know if it'd be easier to put it in something like GitHub or or the forum, but being able to share that and get comments on it so people can look through
Brittany Laughlin: So yes, so before the board meeting, which is in two weeks, getting that done. Thanks.
Lane Rettig: Cool. Does anyone else have any other follow up questions for Brittany.
Lane Rettig: I have just a quick one. Britney and that is, is there anything that any of us, or the working group in general can do to help out with
Lane Rettig: All the work you have on your plate, and in particular with the board nomination process.
Lane Rettig: You know, do you feel you have enough nominations. Can we help spread the word or or is it really just kind of a wait and see. And things up again after the next board meeting, which happens at the end of this month.
Brittany Laughlin: June 24th. I think it's the tentative dates.
Brittany Laughlin: So yeah, I think the nomination process like what that looks like how we want to get public. I would love more thoughts on
Brittany Laughlin: Just like how that could function and how that could work. I know some other organizations have done it. So if you've seen anything
Brittany Laughlin: And being able to surface that I think it's really helpful. But yeah, I don't anticipate taking it on solely on my own. But I think it's like there are a few other things that need to get
Brittany Laughlin: Get up and running and then having more time to focus on that. So if anyone wants to kind of have a smaller conversation about that we can do that too.
Lane Rettig: Exciting. Thank you.
Lane Rettig: I'm yeah I'm definitely excited to see the outcome of that process. And we'll see the board come together.
Lane Rettig: Okay, I guess, moving along.
Lane Rettig: The next. So we're going to the action items section of the agenda.
Lane Rettig: And the first is our minute action item which is action items for action items.
Lane Rettig: I know this was discussed last week, we can talk specifically about
Lane Rettig: Also to provide a tiny bit of context here folks who may not have been part of this conversation. Previously, something that we saw in
Lane Rettig: The governance calls in theory, and that worked really well was highlighting specific action items that come out of calls recording them making a note of them, and then we can also discuss here specifically kind of attaching an owner to each of them for accountability purposes.
Lane Rettig: Actually don't remember where this conversation stood as of the last call Jason I click, you may have thoughts on this. I think I'm here.
Jason Schrader: Yeah, so I hesitated to take it off the list. Just because we sort of discussed that idea of putting names to actions and I like it.
Jason Schrader: I didn't see any pushback, at least on that call, or from anybody else. And I think it'll help with accountability and everything like that. But we didn't really decide on a way to do that.
Jason Schrader: And I know what I was trying to do last week was type up some basic notes as I was going along and post them as a comment, but I don't know if that would be as useful as doing something like, hey,
Jason Schrader: That was an action item. Do you know this is the person who said something about it and maybe commenting in that sort of fashion and
Jason Schrader: I don't know if that would require like one role for one observer to say like, Hey, I know I'm going to record the action items for the meeting, much like the moderator. Does the moderation.
Jason Schrader: Or if it's just something that we can kind of band together and do
Jason Schrader: Individually, but that's something I'm going to look for today is as we talk about action items. I'll try and put if somebody puts their name out there. I'll try and put that name to it in the comments. We have a way to move forward.
Jason Schrader: And from that we can probably knock that one off the list and just keep moving with it.
Lane Rettig: Well, I agree with that. I think we don't need to get too.
Lane Rettig: Complicated here. I think we can do this in a relatively decentralized consensus driven fashion like as things that are clearly action items come up. We should just make a point of that.
Lane Rettig: Here in this call and then yeah, maybe we want to roll, you know, maybe we have a moderator role for each call maybe we have a note taker. Well, maybe we have like an action items per quarter of all. Maybe it's the same or different than
Lane Rettig: The note taker role, but someone who's accountable for recording them and sharing them after the call.
Lane Rettig: Yeah, I see some thumbs up. I don't give anything else, Jason. As we move on.
Jason Schrader: I was just gonna say, you know, regarding that action items recorder role or additional roles on the call. I'm putting my name next to it. Did you want your name next to it, and is there anybody else.
Lane Rettig: Um, for this call, specifically, you mean or just enjoy
Jason Schrader: Yes. Okay.
Jason Schrader: So for this know for this call. Specifically, I'm perfectly happy to make note of that and I'll be the action items recorder.
Jason Schrader: But just looking at the additional roles or, you know, the idea of will probably end up creating an issue for that. So for the lame name by it.
Jason Schrader: So I'm going to put yours and my name by that one and just so everybody knows if there is an action item that you want to jump on just voice it here and I will add it to the comments on the agenda.
Perfect.
Lane Rettig: Alright.
Lane Rettig: Thanks for doing that. So next topic is catching the call references backup. I think we need resources probably find this so the notes and the recording information.
Lane Rettig: If you have the agenda open as I do, you can see that somebody's been crossed off. So Jason just went in and
Lane Rettig: I reviewed his PR and I merged. So we're all caught up on recordings, we added notes for call 12 we still got three calls behind or four calls we find if you put this one on the notes.
Lane Rettig: And I ended up here as well that they're kind of starting to pile up a little bit. I mean, being three calls behind is not the end of the world. But, you know, we were doing a better job of this before.
Lane Rettig: What a folks think. Do we like. So again, just sharing what worked and didn't work in past you know calls and groups have been a part of
Lane Rettig: What worked really well was bounties. This was just like, like notes for a call was just a very small, very specific task that anybody in the ecosystem, who is looking to get more involved in governance and happily, you know, take upon themselves.
Lane Rettig: And we were able to pay out small values for folks for doing things like
Lane Rettig: transcribing notes editing notes that kind of thing. So just throwing it out there. That's one thing that seems to work well.
Lane Rettig: People have other ideas about how we can keep the notes up to date. I'd love to hear them.
Lane Rettig: I do want to reiterate that having written notes is really, really, really helpful for a lot of reasons for we have these videos force and we're caught up on the videos but you know notes are searchable and archival in a way that videos are not
Lane Rettig: They may be easier for some people to read people you know also don't they're easier to skim quickly if you're trying to get caught up on something rather than watching an hour long video So personally, I think there's a lot of value in sending notes as well.
Brittany Laughlin: Is there a way to like
Brittany Laughlin: Then, loop the agenda of the meeting to day with the notes update, because I know we have this really nice agenda. So it's like, maybe it's even just adding the notes into the
Brittany Laughlin: Thing instead of trying to make transcribe what's happening in the videos because I know the transcription service work. Some of the way but you know I was going through one of them and it's like a lot of work to actually correct exactly what was said so.
Brittany Laughlin: Maybe just trying to lower the, you know, make it more real time updates as we're on the call making updates to the notes or the agenda items like maybe a commentary and then adding the video later so
Brittany Laughlin: Yeah, I guess it's maybe just like what's the fidelity of those notes and so that we can make it achievable, um,
Lane Rettig: Yeah.
Lane Rettig: I think there's a couple of good ideas in there. I mean, I think.
Lane Rettig: One related idea, maybe, to the extent that the zoom transcription feature is working and it has worked for all of our calls except just failed. One of the calls we could literally just throw up the raw transcript.
Lane Rettig: It's better than nothing. Obviously, there will be a lot of bloopers as Jason I have been calling them. That's something we can consider doing another option, Brittany, as you're proposing is sort of trying to record some notes live. Now this is something that that
Lane Rettig: I did way back. It's something that Jason has done more recently, I think Jason actually did it for the call last week.
Lane Rettig: I think it's a great idea. I think having very, you know, brief set of maybe need meeting minutes we can call them again. It's a lot better than nothing.
Lane Rettig: I guess we just would need someone or some group of people to step up and volunteer to do it.
Louise Ivan: I would like to jump in here. So, for example, what
Louise Ivan: works best for us in the event of this community goal we have this ongoing paper doc that, for example, everybody tries to fill in and I just give them probably a heads up before a day. Oh.
Louise Ivan: Here's the paper doc for tomorrow. Here's the agenda if you have anything that you would actually like to add, please.
Louise Ivan: either today or before the meeting. And afterwards, it's just for me, easier to compile, so it's more like a high level, you don't really need to go on the nitty gritty details.
Louise Ivan: Of the entire call it is, for example, we discussed this with Brittany said this kind of probably like we discussed these five bullet points.
Louise Ivan: And these are like the set of action items. So it's in that sense, it's more like easier to actually knew God
Louise Ivan: Rather than looking at, like, really long notes in general. I mean, that's like my sanity. But for us, it usually works. People look at the notes and they browse the video if they want more detail to it.
Lane Rettig: Let me. So that's really helpful. Is it, do people update those notes in real time during the call have someone go in and update them after the call, or really like it's just everything you need, is there from before the call. Just curious. The logistics there.
Louise Ivan: I mean, Jason, though, how is it
Louise Ivan: Works. Sometimes I asked, you know, can you actually put your updates in that call. So it's like, for example, in our evangelist meeting. It's probably six
Louise Ivan: People that's trying to put in their notes on the same paper, Doc. And for me I just try to compile it afterwards. So people can actually consume it better.
Louise Ivan: And then I tried to add, for example, Jason said something really nice and then I put it also in the paper, Doc. That's how we I mean we do it in the community. Maybe it's like a suggestion I can send you like the sample for post that we we actually do
Lane Rettig: So maybe like not having a specific note taker role like we're discussing here, but instead crowdsourcing and saying it's everyone's responsibility.
Louise Ivan: Yeah, yeah, yeah. Definitely. Yeah, definitely. You know, it just like you know if everybody puts their own little
Louise Ivan: Agenda, then, you know, it actually makes an entire will good note for the meeting.
Phillip Roe: It's always good to have the
Phillip Roe: An owner of the process.
Phillip Roe: Because, you know, then, and then to make sure that
Louise Ivan: That's true now.
Phillip Roe: Because this is not, it's not an illegal.
Phillip Roe: Illegal terms in terms of the board meeting, you know that you have to have official taking notes minutes and I have to be approved and all that and
Phillip Roe: The here we at least when it was a working group. So, then that's something that could be could be something in the middle, it would be a way a practical way because I probably we are not
Phillip Roe: That far away. And so we had to work together, but
Phillip Roe: It could be a mix of what we have today. It's been going good job, but I it's not so terrible three is not so bad. Of course, this
Phillip Roe: Is the exponential is the same as the viruses as financial need. So of effort to to, you know, to put up the test net and also the mining plaster the, you know, understanding what's gravity in class. Understand the governance of us understanding how
Phillip Roe: To make it happen and all that and and that is a lot of work and I never thought it was it was going to be like that. But obviously, you, you must be feeling the same way. I mean, I can, I can guess that everybody said it.
Phillip Roe: Is a lot of work, but it's been a good job. I mean, it's something that, you know, people can
Phillip Roe: Participate in away.
Phillip Roe: So,
Lane Rettig: Sorry, Jason. Go ahead.
Jason Schrader: That's fine. I was gonna say, I definitely have some input here because I've done a good chunk of the notes and and tried a few different methods, right, like I've tried taking live notes on the call and publishing them that way.
Jason Schrader: I've tried looking back at the
Jason Schrader: transcriptions and updating them as as pretty described and all of it is, it's interesting because it's different levels of capturing information like my concern with doing
Jason Schrader: Live notes is like, am I actually capturing everyone's points. Did I miss something. If somebody were to go back and watch the video and they go, Hey, why didn't you mention this. So,
Jason Schrader: What I see here. And actually, what I like about that and thinking about the community process with the least there.
Jason Schrader: We have this agenda the agenda is definitely open for anybody to comment on and the agenda really needs to go out after the call ends. So I think that's something we can
Jason Schrader: challenge ourselves to do that way the agenda lives for a week where people can comment review it and kind of look at it.
Jason Schrader: From there, I love the idea of using the agenda to generate some high level or live notes so that we could say, hey, these are the agenda items as we hit each item, a quick summary.
Jason Schrader: Much like what we've done with the community. Working Group and the stuff with Luis
Jason Schrader: That way there's something there to say we hit it. We talked about it. This was the summary. Maybe this is the action and the assignment it all kind of fits together.
Jason Schrader: I do like the idea of uploading the transcription as well to the canonical notes reference
Jason Schrader: And I think that is a good first step that could be followed up by somebody cleaning it up later, which could also be a bounty type item.
Jason Schrader: And one of the things that we used to do that. We're not really doing any more, where the regular updates as well. So the idea there was, we would have the meeting.
Jason Schrader: We would have our super long form notes and then there would be a public update that was much like the forum post least does or anything else to say, hey, this is some of what we covered and some of what we're doing, but it, it sort of fell off.
Jason Schrader: Especially now that the notes are falling behind the the update would follow that. And it's falling behind, as well. So
Jason Schrader: I like that idea of if we did the high level kind of meeting minutes notes style where it's just somebody recording that information and maybe recording the action items.
Jason Schrader: It would give us an easy way to get that update out faster create the agenda for the next meeting right away.
Jason Schrader: And then as time goes on updating the transcription or even just having the transcription as a main reference. I think that flow might help a lot. And I'm curious if anybody else has any thoughts on that.
Lane Rettig: I see a thumbs up from Harold. Thanks.
Lane Rettig: Fellas, I'm fulfilling
Lane Rettig: So a lot of good ideas here. Do we have any I mean an interest of time, I definitely want to keep moving through the agenda, we have a bunch still to get to, but do we have any
Lane Rettig: specific action items here. Like, I guess, what's the next step. Do we want to like one thing we can do is we can try doing different things on different calls in the future and seeing what works.
Lane Rettig: Like, you know, it's easy to say it would be nice if someone did X but i i personally don't want to, you know,
Lane Rettig: I don't think anyone here should be telling anyone else what to do. And so, kind of, if someone wants to volunteer to do one of these things. And that's wonderful. And if not, but I think maybe we need to follow my time.
Lane Rettig: I don't. I mean, Jason, you do a lot already. I don't want to suggest that you take on more work.
Jason Schrader: Well, in this case, I don't know if it's necessarily more work, or just a better structure for the work
Jason Schrader: for that same reason to have fallbacks and everything else. So, you know, we don't have a running note today against our agenda. I could kind of capture half of that. But I think that's more of an idea for the
Jason Schrader: Next meeting and for this idea of possibly a note taker or action taker type role, but I do like the idea, we can get the transcription of right after the meeting, same time, the video recording goes up, we can definitely get the
Jason Schrader: Was the other piece that I wanted here. Oh, and get the next meetings agenda up right away as well. So I think the two immediate actions to me would be let's make sure we get our agenda up right after the meeting, whether that's me you or somebody else.
Jason Schrader: And just building that has part of our standards in standard operating procedures. So that's something that I'm happy to help with to make it easier for everyone else, if I can do that, then that's something I'm willing to contribute to
Lane Rettig: Thank you.
Lane Rettig: That's really helpful.
Lane Rettig: Yeah, I think those are both easy wins and those, like you said, those don't really require any additional effort. They're just more efficient use of existing effort, maybe
Lane Rettig: Yeah, we'll keep some the agenda, we can keep talking about it next week. And if we want to try something different for next week's call, then I think that's a great idea.
Lane Rettig: Any final thoughts on this topic.
Lane Rettig: Okay, so the next topic on the agenda is this
Lane Rettig: Brainstorming that I've been doing around long term projects for the working group for the governance working group. So I just dropped a link in the chat here to issue that I opened
Lane Rettig: I don't, I don't think there's a specific action item here. I kind of just wanted this to be on everyone's radar. I'm
Lane Rettig: Brittany and Jenny and I had kind of discussed this a little bit. Just looking forward, you know, now the Foundation does exist. I'm trying to kind of, I think it'd be helpful to delineate a little bit the respective roles of PVC of the foundation, maybe a working group as well.
Lane Rettig: I think a lot of the things on this list. Some of them are probably terrible ideas, maybe some of them are good ideas. Some of them can become independent projects, some of them could become tasks with kind of help wanted tags on them in our PM repository.
Lane Rettig: Before doing any of that I wanted to throw this out there and just see what other folks think about this list.
Lane Rettig: So anyone who feels like it if you take a look at this list, and if you have any thoughts about things on this list. Are they good ideas are they terrible ideas is anything missing anything you want to share right now. Go for it.
Jenny Mith: I think this is a good thing. Thank you for sharing. So, I, I've been doing a lot of thinking here on this too, and I know on the call. We discussed
Jenny Mith: The six process and grants and because they are priorities for the foundation so they make sense and as priorities for that governance working group as well.
Jenny Mith: The other angle that I was coming at it from was just thinking about the problems that we as an ecosystem. Want to share and
Jenny Mith: So this is probably something that the team needs to feel a little better of sharing problems with community and identifying priorities from there. So, for example, and I would count.
Jenny Mith: Like minor identification and onboarding as as a shared problem between everyone and ecosystems and sap is pretty critical to the launch of checks you and qx working the way that we wanted to. So
Jenny Mith: Because that would be an ecosystem wide priority making that also a priority to at least discussing address with the governance working group seems to make sense to me. So
Jenny Mith: I've been wondering whether that's worth having like a, maybe it's not even a town hall, but a smaller even a smaller scale public call where we all sort of discuss the different work streams that folks are involved in
Jenny Mith: In the ecosystem and try to prioritize from there. So I would add things like that to the list as well.
Jenny Mith: Thanks, Jenny. Another example of stacking I talked about mining, but I should also mention like we talked about. This is the in the business.
Jenny Mith: Models working group, but that is a shared problem as well. I think there are a lot of folks are interested in attacking and and there are no products.
Jenny Mith: And just things that we need to flush out before that works the way that we want it for community members to work. So that would also be a shared priority, I think.
Lane Rettig: Thanks, thanks, Jenny. I'm actually making a quick
Lane Rettig: Note in in this GitHub issue about a couple of the things you just shared, but if we can. If you have more of you want to throw into GitHub issue. It's a great place
Lane Rettig: For those things. Thanks.
Phillip Roe: I see that this list is quite
Phillip Roe: Extensive but the problem is whether the
Phillip Roe: Actions that will be will grow on
Phillip Roe: The missionary to the sea process grants and mining is the location, location will be probably one of the
Phillip Roe: Events and education. Those are probably going to be the very important
Phillip Roe: Areas of growth.
Phillip Roe: I could be the block stack, you know, university or something like that or would be something that we will grow because of the as as experience that we had an in business models.
Phillip Roe: That we we went to basic and then and that setting is very valuable. And so then that's because we can take it from the ground up and leverage leverage the whole community and and and and I've got be a huge process. I work process.
Phillip Roe: In different languages and different areas, you know, could be a big thing, not, not just for the elite.
Lane Rettig: Thank you. So I definitely agree. Um, yeah. So again, in the interest of time, I think we'll probably keep moving. I'm happy. We touched upon this and
Lane Rettig: If you look at this list, you know, a couple of beads have issues attached to them number 32 number 38
Lane Rettig: Like translation. For example, we have an issue for that, but we probably could have an issue open for most of these, and it would just be there. They have the potential to become large projects and you know far more than we could cover in this or any single call um
Lane Rettig: Yeah, let's let's keep sharing ideas, and I think that we have a lot to that we could work on
Jenny Mith: And final thought on this is, I wonder if it's worth
Jenny Mith: Us.
Jenny Mith: As a, as a working group.
Jenny Mith: Discussing what our priorities are for the next two or three months or so. And like coming to a consensus and saying, hey, these are
Jenny Mith: The two or three things we want to make sure we deliver in the next couple of months. Who wants to be in charge of or take part in these work streams. I know.
Jenny Mith: I think it was Jason who had shared the group that does all of their working group work entirely asynchronously. And in over email.
Jenny Mith: And that was a great way to report on the work that you're doing for different work streams so that you know
Jenny Mith: If it takes too much time to discuss all of them on a working group call you could get a really good update just from the email thread and maybe that's a direction that we want to move in as a working group as well.
Lane Rettig: That's a great idea.
Lane Rettig: Really, really great idea, but that is an action item.
Lane Rettig: And that could be communicated as a blog post. Also, I'm Jenny. I know something that we had spoken about before is accountability and I think that
Lane Rettig: Nothing is as good for accountability is putting down and writing the things you plan to do and asking the community to hold you accountable to actually delivering on them.
Jenny Mith: Off. It's both scary and very good, very good.
Lane Rettig: Okay, cool. Thank you for everyone's feedback on that. The next topic on the agenda is the survey.
Lane Rettig: I briefly touched upon this in my own stand up so the just as a reminder, the survey was close to new results. A couple weeks ago. It has
Lane Rettig: Again, I mean, there's two issues that are linked here in the chat. A few minutes ago that include my own analysis as well as the raw results.
Lane Rettig: I think the only
Lane Rettig: task to discuss maybe right now is this reaching out to the response. We've talked about this a couple of times, you know, we have email addresses from many of the people I think most of the people who responded
Lane Rettig: We probably want to follow up with them sooner rather than later. And it's already getting to be a little bit later.
Lane Rettig: To do certain things like maybe invite them to join a call or share more about governance working group or maybe share a blog post. When we have one
Lane Rettig: May be sharing more resources, you know, a lot of folks indicated that they felt they didn't really understand governance. Does anyone have any thoughts on how or when we want to do that.
Jason Schrader: I'll jump in real quick and say definitely
Jason Schrader: Dinner than later.
Jason Schrader: For that one because I feel like we've passed that point, you know, we've got it closed off now and it's time to get back to these people kind of gives them a little bit of validation for everything they've done, especially with the long completion times on the survey so
Jason Schrader: What would it take, I would assume that we'd want this email to come from the the stacks.org email address, just because we have
Jason Schrader: That availability now and that's probably going to be the official communications channel moving forward.
Jason Schrader: So with that in mind, what would it take, or what can we do to help draft this. Do we want that to be a community thing. Is somebody gonna take lead on that and then share it, and then we send it or just the structure of that and I'll note it in in my notes in the comment here.
Phillip Roe: Sooner
Phillip Roe: Than later, especially because you know as the previous topic that you mentioned that we had to put it on an action list.
Phillip Roe: That also can be influenced by the what we have, we can see from the survey, for example, just looking at the road that that data and looking at the Chilean correspondence and
Phillip Roe: And I realized that there's a potential there because that people that actually are leading our working on the on the local communities.
Phillip Roe: blockchain community. So then, then you know that's things that we can do in towards you know, increasing the goal or strengthening the Community and doing some action. So, so probably said is
Phillip Roe: We don't have to be so perfect on the first analysis and we have to, and then that will give us some hints on which actions should be enforced and or strength sentence and be more successful. But now, because, you know, before the domain name comes up.
Phillip Roe: You know, because that will help the whole ecosystem.
Brittany Laughlin: Yeah, well I think gun. You know, I'm happy to
Brittany Laughlin: help coordinate sending from sacks on or. So I think that that
Brittany Laughlin: That's easier to do now, so we can have that setup.
Brittany Laughlin: I'm
Lane Rettig: I'm kind of Jason for purposes of accountability and happy to have my name on this action item. I'm just hesitating because I just don't know what we want to say, and I think that's something that everyone needs to
Lane Rettig: Give some thought to and maybe contribute to, you know, it's a no brainer to say the things that we've been saying right which is joined the working group. And here's the resources and
Lane Rettig: I just don't know that we have anything new to say, and that's why I'm feeling like maybe the right thing to do is to get out at least one blog post, maybe finished the one that Jenny has been working on.
Lane Rettig: And maybe that gives us a slightly new message something to communicate that wasn't already communicated in the survey.
Jason Schrader: I like that idea, just depending on the status of the blog post and where we're at with that.
Jason Schrader: Being the main blocker to doing so and the other things that I thought of two is just trying to do the clear linking to resources, you know, like would
Jason Schrader: Instead of saying, hey, here's the resources are positive very, it's like this, read me has this information and this calls, read me has this information, because I know
Jason Schrader: At one point it was expressed to me that somebody didn't realize we had a table of all the calls that related to all the notes.
Jason Schrader: And after showing them. They were like, Wow, this is amazing. It's exactly what I would have wanted. I just didn't know to ask her to look for it. So I do see
Jason Schrader: And actually to in doing this. I think that's going to help us with the some of the other items we have around the shared landing page or
Jason Schrader: Might be another one that we could try to include with that idea, but definitely want to figure out the best way to move with time. So that's
Jason Schrader: That's interesting. And I think a lot of this just for those watching the call, or anything else. So in the project management repository, the PM repository, issue number 60
Jason Schrader: Is what covers the survey follow up and I'll have that in my comment as well and
Jason Schrader: That would probably be the best place if there's something that you think we should share or something to add, just to throw that as a comment into that issue. And thank you, lane for throwing that link in there. But that's, that's my thought on it.
Lane Rettig: Okay, um, something else we had talked about maybe doing before was like, I can't remember exactly how we phrase this but but like writing
Lane Rettig: Short analyses or discussions or descriptions of aspects of governance, rather than just linking to things right, we have this resources repository with a lot of links on it.
Lane Rettig: It's a little overwhelming for someone landing on that page and just seeing 100 links. Can we like like Harold, maybe you were the one who proposed this, I don't remember exactly, but can we go in and kind of like actually post some
Lane Rettig: Descriptions or short summaries of some of these resources. So maybe that's something that we could share Jason, you raise your hand, was it up. Sorry if I got that wrong.
Jason Schrader: No, not, not at all. You know, and it's been some some great efforts by everybody. So it's not just that, but definitely project management repository, issue number 33
Jason Schrader: Or no, not 33 with the shared resources. Darn. I'd have to look it up again. But I had one where
Jason Schrader: I think it was actually in the resources repository. So this is where things get a little confusing.
Jason Schrader: Where I was starting to track additional resources that I wanted to add to the list and I recognize that it's a long list of links and these links go to multi page articles and really deep concepts and
Jason Schrader: Things that are excellent to read have some sort of high level summary or way to say like, hey, this link is about this and here's a paragraph of what it's about, because we
Jason Schrader: Gives you an easier way to jump into it and know what you're consuming versus like, Okay, I've got 10 links and eight hours and a whole pot of coffee and I'm going to rock it out.
Jason Schrader: So with that in mind. Yeah, that one was in the resources repository. I don't remember the issue number offhand, but it was definitely something that I think
Jason Schrader: We would all need to work together on to because with all the reading content that's there, not one of us is going to be, nor should be the the main voice for what's in those articles, but it might give a little more insight as to why we have those on the list.
Lane Rettig: I guess it's this number 33
Lane Rettig: There aren't many open issues with resources are pumped to the bunch of stuff.
Lane Rettig: Okay.
Lane Rettig: Cool. I think the next steps are pretty clear. Here I am in the process of adding some notes to the issue on the survey follow them on GitHub. We're coming up to the top of the hour. We still have a few things. So let's keep moving.
Lane Rettig: That's it for the survey governance landing page. This was on last week, um,
Lane Rettig: I personally I don't think there's a whole lot more to discuss here. I think we can kind of just leave this to come back to. Does anyone have any additional thoughts on this topic.
Phillip Roe: I think that we have a lot of contents for for that that landing page in terms of at least
Phillip Roe: As a presentation. We have the resources and that's that's already I think Dan, but it had to be our obviously beautifully done in a design, but that's that's what i this is just the presentation of the resources is some alpha
Phillip Roe: Is a base a good good place for that. I think so.
Jason Schrader: I know one one main thing that came up about that landing page was possibly using GitHub pages as a quick way to help organize all the different repositories.
Jason Schrader: The resources in there. Plus, give people a really easy way to contribute and keep track of the changes I know I'm for this idea. I haven't had a chance to play around with it or see the best way we would set it up in relation to the repositories and definitely would love to.
Jason Schrader: Have anybody who's more of an expert in it than I am. And aside from that, if there was anybody who thinks there would be a better way to do it or something. Aside from GitHub pages that we should use
Jason Schrader: open to hearing that as well. But I think in the short term, especially given that we're doing so much on GitHub, that it makes sense. So that's, that's my side of it.
Lane Rettig: Thanks, guys.
Phillip Roe: You can just get back
Lane Rettig: Um, I'm I like GitHub pages. I just, I'm personally, the less worried about the presentation framework and I am about the content. I think that will figure out how to present it but like the challenges, putting together the content.
Lane Rettig: Okay, so we'll leave this as an action item. Thanks for sharing those.
Lane Rettig: Blog posts. This is an important one.
Lane Rettig: Jenny, do you have anything you want to share on where that stands
Jenny Mith: Nothing in particular, I would say, please go and like rip it apart. It's
Jenny Mith: It's a first draft. And so I I went with like a more introductory route because I found myself getting caught in the weeds about what I could talk about
Jenny Mith: There but if anyone feels strongly about other things that I should add, please, please feel free to add and
Jenny Mith: You know, I'd be happy to revise. I think one section that I felt particularly attached to and had a hard time writing was and the section on on you know what we use a working group believe in, or our shared values. I thought it was important to talk about how we
Jenny Mith: Have had a lot of discussions about, you know, the social layer governance and I think that that's something that I love to emphasize because it does differentiate the way that this governance group.
Jenny Mith: Works compared to other projects. So if there is anything there that I could capture and with more nuance or, you know, with Richard detail.
Jenny Mith: Please feel free to, you know, know that in the issue, but I mean I would be prepared to get that set up to be published next week. If we felt good about it.
Lane Rettig: Thanks, Jenny. I just dropped the link
Lane Rettig: Here folks who haven't had a chance to review it yet. Um, yeah, I guess that's that's our call to action. Please take a look. And it sounds like we can probably get published, pretty soon, that's very exciting and hopefully it's the first of multiple such posts from the governance.
Jenny Mith: I'm happy to be the owner on that and I can. I'm happy to be held accountable for
Jenny Mith: At least I mean I can chase people down for for edits or suggestions on revisions and have something like a final draft by our next meeting next Wednesday.
Lane Rettig: Speaking personally, I find deadlines to be really helpful. I know that you had assigned a deadline to, you know, your previous issues, saying, you know,
Lane Rettig: Tell me what what what should be included in this post and so I'm, I'm all for that. If you want to assign a deadline of the next call if you want to just kind of remind people in discord, you know, two, three days from now, like, hey, this is your last chance to get input, it would be great.
Jenny Mith: Okay.
Thank you, buddy.
Lane Rettig: Okay, we're down to the last two topics, one minute to get through them. Let's see if we can do this. Si peas process proposal, I think actually back would probably be moved down to the open discussion section.
Lane Rettig: It's a living document.
Lane Rettig: I think, you know, I probably asked Brittany On the last call. Where does this stand, from the perspective of the foundation and the answer was, like,
Lane Rettig: Well what but it's, it's something that that the foundation will be taking more upon itself. I think the next quarter right and that need to figure out exactly some of the some of the core developers folks like, Dude, have been kind of weighing in on it and we need to figure out exactly
Lane Rettig: Who's responsible for which pieces of the sap process.
Lane Rettig: I don't know, there's a specific action item here right now but if
Brittany Laughlin: I don't think there's an actual them right now and
Brittany Laughlin: It is good transition. But yeah, I think, to wait in and some things. So it's open. If people still want to haven't had a chance to take a look and add some comments but the resolution of it will probably happen later this month into July.
Lane Rettig: Perfect. Okay, that's actually quite soon.
Lane Rettig: With exciting to hear
Lane Rettig: And bringing, do you foresee a role in the governance working group in in SI P is process going forward, VISIT BE THE ROAD AND foundation
Brittany Laughlin: Yeah, I think the you know the sap process will have like these open
Brittany Laughlin: Times for like comments and feedback they will likely be more technical nature. So I think if folks gravitate towards outside
Brittany Laughlin: And that's a great place to weigh in and, you know, everyone will have access to weigh in on the different proposals.
Brittany Laughlin: And so I think it's not necessarily a huge X action item under the governance group. But if folks in this group want to weigh in and help establish that or gift comments on different proposals, then that's where I see
Lane Rettig: Awesome. Thank you.
Lane Rettig: The next item here engineering calls added the governance resources that's been done. So Jason. Thank you for that.
Lane Rettig: I think that's it for the main agenda, we can really move through the list of open discussion. And just as a reminder, these are things that live on the agenda.
Lane Rettig: That we don't necessarily have time to discuss in depth when we want to kind of make a note that that they're here and if people do have thoughts on them they should feel free to share them but not feel obliged to comment if they don't
Lane Rettig: So Harold your one pager for the academy meeting. Am I correct and remembering that you yes you added to your links to resources here, did you want to speak to this briefly.
Harold Davis: Yes, yes. Thank you kindly yeah I added the true one poem
Harold Davis: Development Council one pager, as well as long, along with the SIP for for both the original ideas for the for the issue.
Harold Davis: Of both proposals and they really do complement each other in terms of if you read one, you won't you won't want to do as much reading for the second and so I put them there together.
Harold Davis: to disparage anybody look I think its eyes on it. And, um, yeah, I'd like to, I guess, add an action item know for for any refinement of these ideas.
Harold Davis: They're far from refined and can only get better with with contribution from folks like yourselves and so I'm excited to get these these ideas refined in the GitHub issue then
Harold Davis: Hopefully other folks can see what I've tried to describe their in those one pagers, and why why it's exciting. So yeah, stop it there.
Lane Rettig: Thank you. Hello.
Lane Rettig: Thank you for sharing them. Thanks for the update. These are really fantastic resources. So definitely take a look at them. If you haven't already, and as Harold said the only get better with with people's feedback.
Lane Rettig: Okay Community research observer. I don't think we have anything to add on this. I don't think it's been an update here over the past week but
Lane Rettig: Just noting this is still something we care about doing and it's something that I think Brittany suggested
Lane Rettig: Should be possible, from the perspective of foundation Brittany had to drop the call already so maybe we can you know we'll, we'll check with her next time and see if there's anything to add on that one.
Lane Rettig: Code of Conduct. This is something that comes up again and again and again.
Lane Rettig: I'm just opening this myself to see if there was anything else I did hear that it's funny, it's been mentioned in every working group call recently no updates.
Lane Rettig: Again, it's a living document if you have box.
Lane Rettig: Please, throw them in get or mentioned them on discord.
Lane Rettig: Yeah, it's an important document. Sorry. In
Lane Rettig: there for a second.
Phillip Roe: Oh, yes, yes. The idea that
Phillip Roe: Then you can retrieve all this code of conduct.
Phillip Roe: Ideas, you know, from all the documents. So we already have.
Phillip Roe: That could be a
Phillip Roe: An action that will be done. I mean, is the thing is that we have so much to do, but I can see what we can do, but
Phillip Roe: No. Yes, thinking of that you know that this one constant when our another another another another another. So then, those are the things and then from that you can make an abstraction. So that's something that we can maybe do I don't know who can do it. I'm, I'm a bit
Phillip Roe: My Plate is quite full. And I would like to do it, but
Phillip Roe: I'm not sure that the time will
Phillip Roe: Have too many hats and
Lane Rettig: Of course, we all identify with that, I want to ask the first thing you said was that we can put this together from documents we already have. Can you explain what you meant by that a little bit.
Phillip Roe: I see it in the interviews I've seen in many areas that this some mention of they have it in the discord also they have Jason was mentioning this some mention of the certain attitudes and
Phillip Roe: Also that this conference that we are attending in in London supposedly
Phillip Roe: This Cox and and his I don't remember the name of leadership. I don't know, an entity artificial intelligence blockchain our distributed decentralized
Phillip Roe: They mentioned that the most important aspect of of work of the future work will be the attitude attitude.
Phillip Roe: Work instead of the technical capabilities, because if you have that dude, you can learn the technical capabilities and so that's something recommend
Phillip Roe: So then the attitude that we see here is we can stress that and I've seen that mentioned in different places. And it's interesting because you know this. There's something that is not specific. Then of course money we're trying to, to say that in this letter in a way
Phillip Roe: But then, then it could be, I think that we can Elise, you have. I like a kind of
Phillip Roe: A retrieval of although all the attitudes. We've seen you know qualities or spiritual qualities or or by human values and all those things that are already written in the in the document.
Lane Rettig: Very valid point.
Lane Rettig: But yeah
Lane Rettig: To your point, as well. Philip it's, it will be
Lane Rettig: A task to go in and kind of extract those hops and turn them into a code of conduct. Yeah, okay. I agree.
Lane Rettig: Cool, alright, languages and translation. We mentioned this, every meeting as well. We care a lot about this. It's definitely I think it's, it is on the uncertain. It's on the list of longer term projects that the working group can work on
Lane Rettig: Jump in, if you have anything to add.
Lane Rettig: shared resources.
Lane Rettig: Actually don't remember what this is shared sex club and blogs resources.
Jason Schrader: Yeah, so that that was the idea of just sharing resources across
Jason Schrader: Record like having the foundations in the account or the shared your
Jason Schrader: Tone and kind of links into those standard operating procedures as well.
Jason Schrader: So we just keep this one as a rolling item. My main asked to everyone is, you know, how could we use blocks back applications in a shared fashion, since we don't really have a way to do that yet.
Jason Schrader: But outside of that we will likely see an update on this one. I don't have any any promises. Because I know we don't have Brittany on the call anymore, but I have fingers crossed that we're going to see
Jason Schrader: Some of those initial accounts like zoom and stewardship of some of the other things like YouTube move over to the foundation in the, in the next few weeks here. So some of that will be updated, but we just have it as a rolling topic for now.
Lane Rettig: Lovely, thank you for that.
Lane Rettig: And finally, founding document review. I think the Code of Conduct falls under founding documents, along with other things like statements of shared principles and mission and vision values and these sorts of things. Um, yeah. Again,
Lane Rettig: It's, it's always a good time to take a look at what we have and share your thoughts on on those if you haven't already. There are also living documents but I expect as we move forward with establishment of the foundation. And at some point, we may want to kind of
Lane Rettig: You know release a version one of these documents that we can continue to iterate on them.
Lane Rettig: Thank you so much for your time today. Everybody does anybody have any last minute thoughts that they want to share with the group.
Harold Davis: One thing that came to mind is
Harold Davis: You'd mentioned boundaries for notes and
Harold Davis: Brought up mind bounties for the language translation for the long term.
Harold Davis: I don't know if we've discussed this in the past, it slipped my mind. But this is something that just came into my head as well.
Harold Davis: With the young, the nonprofit that I work with a great piece.
Harold Davis: And then the indigenous Council as a lot of folks had through language translation. Pretty much every day. And so
Harold Davis: Just came to my mind in terms of might be something that they're interested in in this in this locked down time when some of the actual language translation jobs to kind of dried up some the bounties might might make sense for them as well. So just something that can come to my mind.
Jason Schrader: Yes, and comment on that real quick. I know. Jenny had mentioned, that's a little bit of what we're doing in the proof of transfer group.
Jason Schrader: So I know we've been trying to do some translations there and there's been some bounties offered up and I think the same kind of thing makes sense. I mean, anything that's a small concrete tasks that we can easily defined
Jason Schrader: We can respect that it does take time and offer them some basic form of compensation for that time in order to help the group move forward. So I'm all for it.
Harold Davis: Go beautiful meeting.
Lane Rettig: Likewise. Thank you everybody agree on the boundaries topic I'll make a note of that here in GitHub, we can discuss that further. Thanks for a wonderful meeting have an amazing week everybody stay safe and see you back here. Same bat time same bat channel next week.
Jason Schrader: Sounds good. Thank you, everyone.
Phillip Roe: And I owe you.

# General Resources

See [Stacks Governance Working Group Calls](https://stacksgov.github.io/resources/#/calls/?id=governance-working-group) for the table of past calls.

See [Stacks Governance Resources](https://stacksgov.github.io/resources/) for additional information related to governance of the Stacks blockchain.
