# 20200506 Governance Working Group Call 11

Jason (@whoabuddy) is moderating today.

> Note: The normal transcript provided by Zoom did not process, so today's notes were created directly from viewing the video.

## Agenda

https://GitHub.com/stacksgov/pm/issues/37

Jason: Welcome everybody to the governance working group call 11, we are going to go through our standard agenda like we do each week here, so getting started, our first item we go over is a standup from everyone around. What is everyone working on? Do you have any blockers? And what do you anticipate to happen over the next week.

## Standup!

### Jason Schrader

Jason: I can start with that one since I'm up and going, right now I've been doing my standard GitHub stuff in the background. I actually compiled a big list of resources from Discord and from the forum that people have been contributing, so a huge thank you and shout out to everyone who's been throwing in more resources, throwing out more links, and we will try and get all those organized into the main resources repo.

Jason: Other than that, looking at today's agenda, there were quite a few items that I tried to link together. If we were talking about the SIP process, then I tried to link to that in the GitHub, and just trying to get these things to be a little more cohesive. I don't have any blockers at this time, everything is moving nicely, and over the next week here I want to keep up with that. I want to see that resources list updated.

Jason: That's it from my side, anybody else who would like to do a standup?

### Harold Davis

Harold: Yeah, I can jump in here, as a quick standup of the last few weeks, actually. I'll start with a few works in progress that sprung up and I think are relevant here.

Harold: The working group session specific to the Two Row Wampum social layer platform/project I've been working on, started a few weeks ago, and we've had pretty consistent working group sessions from traditional council. It's exciting because we have seen some pretty abstract ideas around blockchain and some things they are trying to do with the platform in digital fabrication, that for lay-folks helping us and ourselves being lay-folk, communicating these ideas for the first time in very detailed ways.

Harold: It's exciting because the consistency, they've been kind of enough to offer a whole lot of time, hours and hours on end, and we've covered a lot of ground. There are recordings of this that I will be able to share, I'm sure they're all fine with sharing, in the beginning they were concerned with getting the ideas more concrete so that they feel capable of contributing in consensus or in dialog, and folks like yourselves and others coming to these same sessions to help suss out what can be done inside of this platform as a social layer.

Harold: Another work in progress outside of that, is semi-related to something Jenny brought up in the past, an AMA related to more in-depth questions about all of this stuff. Right when I was going to tell the traditional council of this offer and opportunity for dialog, they actually communicated to us that they were already in the process of having some discussions as it relates to their 2,000yr+ constitution, and the nuances of that, in a discussion or Q&A type format on a streamed video.

Harold: This is something I figured dovetailed nicely with what Jenny proposed, and an opportunity that was scheduled for last weekend, so I was excited to post sometime last week for everyone to join if interested, and to share in the community, but it was pushed back to this weekend and I will keep everyone updated to that.

Harold: The work in progress related to that is a blog post, I've seen, I've been following throughout the weeks, I know there are some calls to action for the blog posts and so it's a work in progress that relates to what Lane has done in the GitHub issues, putting forward important challenges in the governance space that are known, and I'm trying to address these with my years experience with this traditional council as well as previous years of looking into blockchain governance and things like this.

Harold: Trying to address some of these challenges with this unconventional approach of indigenous matrilineal council process that we've learned thus far, and having in addition to that post, that comes from the Q&A where he can put the challenges that Xan has posed and put forward, and put them into question form for the traditional council to answer in their words directly.

Harold: The other work in progress I have is to make an issue, specifically for the proposal he's had here before, as it relates to an additional entity that can offer unique juris prudence, I have some additional things that I'd like to add to that idea and put it in a concrete form for anyone to be able to contribute or add ideas to.

Harold: Any blockers that I have to any of these things: I don't see any right now. As it relates to the issue, I think the meeting we've already tried to coordinate, myself, Jenny, and Juliet are on the document, maybe Lane as well, I've also posted it here before for anybody to join, it's a base document to coordinate a meeting with Tomas Diez of the FabAcademy network, and hopefully it's a connection to Primavera di Fillipe. I know Lane has also had some previous work with her, the fireside chats have come up, if there's any way to follow up with this it's the only blocker. Coordination there could start as soon as possible for a very layered meeting that we may have ahead for us.

https://paper.dropbox.com/doc/Meeting-wTomas-DiezPrimavera-Connection--AzeCC~olgxmajJhWv49zT9~NAg-vgftHgoR26II8R3CGpi4h

Harold: Sorry for the long standup but I'll stop there, thank you kindly for all of the meetings and work everyone's been doing for the last few weeks, it's been really exciting to watch. Thank you kindly.

Jason: That is awesome, I just wanted to say thank you, that sounds like a lot of work in progress! So there's definitely a lot of things going on there. I made some notes, too, so if there's anywhere I can help with issues, or making sure things are linked, definitely let me know on my end as well for that.

Jason: do we have any other standups that we want to roll into real quick?

### Lane Rettig

Lane: I'll do a quick one. Jason, seconding what you just said, Harold thank you for sharing all these exciting updates and I think the opportunity here for learning and collaboration is really enormous and part of what excites me so much for this project. Thank you for serving as a bit of a bridge here between different projects and different approaches and thoughts about governance, all the work you've been doing as well.

Lane: really quick update from my side, the main thing I've been working on is continuing to work on the SIP process. I always get confused, it's SIP process improvement proposal, so it's like a meta-proposal. In particular, looking at the all core devs calls that have been happening in Ethereum for the past, basically since the beginning, sort of a call that happens.

Lane: Fun side note - in Ethereum we have the EIP, which is the Ethereum Improvement Proposal, and then we have an EIPIP now, Ethereum Improvement Proposal Improvement Proposal, which is literally a meta-improvement proposal. It's actually a thing, there is a GitHub repository and everything, I just think it's funny. If you're a fan of recursion and stuff you'll find this as amusing as I do.

Lane: Anyway, so Ethereum does these calls every two weeks, which are sort of the cornerstone of governance, or at least the technical governance in Ethereum, so I had a quick chat with Brittany about whether this is something we might want to do in Stacksgov and in particular, if this would fall under the foundation, and we had talked previously about the foundation stewarding the SIP process.

Lane: So that's the thing I've been thinking about, I added a chunk to the proposal (SIP proposal) about specifically this meeting, that document was shared here last week and probably the week before that as well. Take a look if you haven't, there's been some awesome feedback on that document and Jude, who's one of the core developers for PBC, added a ton of super helpful comments, thoughts, and commentary there, so I've been reviewing stuff he added. Again, this is a great opportunity to dive in and take a look at the SIP proposal if you haven't already, given that there's now beginning to be some really interesting dialog here and I do think it's something that will get actioned very soon under the foundation.

Lane: I can't speak directly to that, because that's Brittany's wheel house. I think that's it for me, thanks. No blockers, and the next step is to continue to work on the SIP proposal.

Jason: Alright, excellent, and I just want to second that. I started looking in that Google Doc because I had been a little lazy about getting in there, I finally got in there this morning and saw there were a ton of comments from Jude, and like you were saying, some really interesting conversations happening there too. Should we have the main process? Should there be a technical one? A procedural one? You know, like how many recursive abbreviations can we make kind of thing?

Lane: This is one of those rare moments in the birth of a project or an ecosystem, I can't say birth of a project because Blockstack has existed for a while, but the flourishing of this ecosystem when this document or conversation could have an outsized influence on the things that happen for a very long time. To the extent that we feel this project will exist for a long time, which I know we all do. That's just my way of saying get involved in the conversation, if it's interesting, because hopefully a few months from now a lot of this will be in motion.

Jason: On that note, if you could drop a link in the chat and we can drop a link in Discord to give everyone a second, fresh look at that.

https://docs.google.com/document/d/1huF3u6BlrEapbjw77wGp_lq3d3kC17ZugCalvpN8M3U/edit?usp=sharing

Jason: Getting through our standups, I think we've pretty much gotten through everybody, is there anybody else that wanted to do something real quick or should we move on to the agenda?

### Jenny Mith

Jenny: I can do a quick one, Jason. I think I've mentioned this before and it's come up in the stakeholder interviews, and I don't think it's something we can attack now, but I've been doing some thinking and talked to Juliet about this, around the future of community management, especially the more and more we decentralize.

Jenny: We've looked into the way other projects do it, at the moment we have a few main community managers, but I think there is a real opportunity for us to come up with a code of conduct as a community, very similar to the work this group is already doing, figuring out a way to select community managers, rotate community managers, and enforce our code of conduct in a way that's reflective of the way we do governance.

Jenny: So it's a big topic, which is why I haven't brought it up until today, but I wanted to drop that into the discussion and get everyone else thinking about it, because I do feel like past this governance proposal this group has a pretty critical function, and these type of issues will come up regularly. I've also been thinking big picture, what is the future of the governance working group? What kinds of decisions will they be making?

Jenny: No blockers at the moment, but I will share a doc eventually with some notes on what I've been thinking and some resources I've come into on this topic as well.

Jason: Excellent, thank you for that, and I did have a few items on the agenda, too, like the code of conduct is definitely one we've seen in proposals and I'm excited to get into those topics more. I think we're at a little bit of that "chicken and egg" stage right now where the foundation is forming, but we want to form the policies, but we don't have policies, and we're gonna get there for sure.

## Community Survey

Jason: So I'm excited to see that, thank you for that Jenny. Next up on our agenda, so now we have the community survey, this thing that we keep coming back to every week, and I'm really excited to see because we've had a few different major pushes for exposure, so maybe a quick update to where we're at, and I don't know if we have enough people to get consensus on how to look at it, but I know that's always our next question, too. So if you have anything, Lane?

Lane: Yeah, so I just checked, we are at 57 total responses and we started with 8 internal to the group, so that's 49, which is pretty good. It's an increase of 5 over last week's call so we're at a little bit less than one a day in terms of responses. So that's the hard data.

Jason: Excellent, a little better, and I think a long time ago we talked about a soft goal of 50 for starting to look at the data and how we can process the data, but I think with the small amount of people we have on today we will start looking at that async and just start pulling up the original discussions around what we want to do with it and how. It's probably close to time, at least in my opinion.

Lane: I suspect that if we got 5 in the last week, responses won't be linear, interest will wane over time and so they'll fall off unless there is a new push going forward. So I think that makes sense, but I do also want to celebrate early wins and the fact that we are at roughly 50 responses is pretty good all things considered.

Jason: Thank you for that, does anyone have anything else they would like to comment on or talk about the survey, before we move on to the next agenda item?

## Blog post

Jason: Next up we are looking at the blog post, which is something that we talked about starting and write some content for, we wanted to get a first one out and then decide if we want to continue doing them and a structure for that. I know I was able to post a little bit, I know Harold's got his work in progress for what he's doing on his side, is there anything else we want to talk about related to the blog post or is there anything that we can help you with on your end of things, Jenny?

Jenny: How do we feel of imposing a strict deadline of getting your contributions in by this Friday.

Jason: I think we might as well, I think we've got a lot of content, when I was going back through, especially when we are talking about what the group has done, a lot of it is out there already, we have it. So I think it's a matter of compiling it. I'm happy to assist with that a little bit, and if we want to dive a little bit deeper into the one I commented on, if we have enough there then maybe we can expand that and get that done on a faster timeline.

Jenny: Cool that sounds good, thanks Jason.

Lane: I've got some stuff I can contribute as well, Harold looks like you shared a document, not sure if that's related to the blog post, but did want to make sure to check with Harold since he's got some work in progress here, if he thinks Friday is also a reasonable deadline to begin collating all this stuff, I want to make sure everyone has enough time.

Harold: Yes, of course, this is reasonable, this has been a work in progress for a couple weeks now, so I was planning to be able to put some stuff out today or tomorrow so this is fine with me. Thank you kindly.

Jason: Sounds like we have some basic marching orders to at least get our first milestone achieved there with the blog post, are there any other comments or things we would like to cover with the blog post before we move on?

## SIPs process proposal

Jason: Next up we have our SIPs process proposal, I know you were talking a little bit about it in the standup, is there anything else we'd like to cover toward that subject, Lane?

Lane: Anything else... I don't think so. I think I kinda covered it from the standup in my side. Take a look, Jude raised some interesting questions, I'll try to share more on the status of it next week. Just recapping again, I added a little bit of a section on a regular / technical-focused governance call. I think I cut Brittany off just a second ago, sorry, go ahead.

Brittany: I was just going to mention that call, I think adding that as a first step, or as part of the whole process, that's kind of like we have this proposal, with the action item, and that call I think will be the first thing. Even if it's all just PBC engineers to begin with, I think that at least we're getting a cadence, and I know that PBC, or the core engineers at Blockstack, they've been doing calls in the past and have had some folks move to different time zones, so they haven't kept up with that.

Brittany: If you look in our GitHub there is an outdated weekly call schedule, so yeah, I think that's something we have in practice but it's great to have the foundation be accountable to make sure that call is happening and moving forward. Lane you put together some really detailed action items on how that call can be run, and how people can participate, and where to promote it, so that makes it very actionable. My takeaway from that was to actually work with Diwaker and the core engineers and schedule the first call next week, and trying to find that time and keep it on a recurring basis. Probably once every other week to start, then if it feels like too often or not often enough, we can adjust it from there.

Lane: Brittany, thanks for sharing that, Diwaker is head of engineering if I remember correctly, right? Just for folks who aren't familiar.

Brittany: yes, Diwaker is our head of engineering at Blockstack, and he helps manage and may not always be on the calls because it's his team, but he's the easiest access point into that whole world.

Lane: I'm really excited about these, I've just wanted for a long time to deep dive personally into the Blockstack tech stack, and it's a great opportunity to do that. I guess the other outstanding action item here, I know we had talked about recording action items, if this is something that interests you, or if these calls are interesting to you, I don't know what or where but details will be shared in the governance channel for sure, maybe a new channel created or something, but it'll be open needless to say so please join if you're interested.

Jason: That sounds really exciting, very cool. Looking over the agenda and my biggest ask related to this comes back to the same things, looking at the proposals on GitHub, and one of the original questions we asked on the forum is "What should the foundation govern?" We keep coming back to that, and I think it'd be a fun time to rehash or look through everything and say "hey, these are the top 5 items I think it should govern", and that can all be done through the issues or through comments, and a lot of that is already out there.

Jason: That would be my biggest part, anything else from anybody on the SIP proposal process?

Lane: I agree with you, Jason, I'm just going to share, I'm pretty sure there is an open, yeah I just found it, open issue on exactly this question where I did a brain dump of my thoughts. I'm going to drop that link here so that might be a good place to have that conversation, I think I called it "scope of governance".

https://github.com/stacksgov/proposals/issues/3

Jason: Yeah, and I had seen some similar questions on the forum, too, like going back through the older forum posts and things like that. I think it'd be fun to rehash that, so thank you Lane. I think that about covers everything on the SIP proposal, we will see if anybody else has any comments, I will give it a few seconds.

Lane: Just reading on the agenda here, I wasn't sure if you were going to talk about these separately or not, but I do see Community Research Observer and Code of Conduct, anything to add on those? or are we at no updates in the past week?

Jason: You know, I left those on from last week because they are kind of "open topics", and this came back to our action items discussion of how do we take this from open topic, to closed topic, and something was done about it. So there's not a lot I have to add.

Jason: For the community research observer role, last week we talked about how there hasn't been research going on in this particular phase of the process, so when that starts happening again we know we can implement it, and we just need an official way to do so, which is kind of waiting on what we're doing with the SIP documentation as well. I think it's good to keep it as a rolling topic.

Jason: For the Code of Conduct, it was originally talked about how Blockstack put together one, I think it was based on the contributor covenant that applied to the repo, and then we wanted to look at how structurally the foundation would be involved with saying hey this is the code of conduct, we're determining things, but I don't think there's a way we can answer those right now. I didn't want them to get lost, so I definitely still had them on the list and I think we will keep rolling them through until we have answers.

Lane: I think that's a reasonable strategy, there's something to be said for keeping things on the agenda until we're ready to handle them, just so they don't get lost because there are a lot of open issues and stuff. I think it's just worth mentioning them in the calls, so there's a record that, you know, yes we are still on top of this and it's on our list.

## Stacks Foundation update (from PBC)

Jason: Yes, that definitely makes sense, so I agree with you there. Next up here I think we will have our Stacks Foundation update from Brittany, Brittany are you ready to tell us a little more about what's going on?

Brittany: Sure, yes, so the foundation is a new entity, I think we've gone over that, so obviously with a company you need people, funding, a website, you don't need these things but these are the things being worked on behind the scenes. The transfer of assets from PBC to the foundation will be the initial way its funded.

Brittany: So we had a board meeting at the PBC side last week, and in that board meeting discussed what the scope and size of that asset allocation would be. We stated a long time ago that it will include things like the app mining tokens that were set aside, those will go underneath the foundation, there will also be a portion of the treasury, the long term and short term treasury, so these tokens will then be used for ecosystem development over time. The size and scope of those has been roughly sketched out but just needs to be finalized, and for tax purposes need to be recognized in a certain way, so our financial team is working on that.

Brittany: Those are happening behind the scenes right now, so within, fingers crossed, the next week we will have an update on the actual entity being formed and having everything underneath it. We are hopeful that we can make a press splash as well, explaining what we are doing, why this is so important to the mission of Blockstack, and introducing it to the world in a way that gets visibility. So we're anticipating maybe next Wednesday that could be the date of the announcement.

Brittany: With that, we're also talking to potential board members. In order for the organization to "exist" we need to have at least two board members signed on, so there will be three people, but then beyond that one of the things that we talked about here and have been thinking about, is the call for recommended board members who represent the different values that we hope encompass the board of the foundation. I think that having people who have experience in the open source world, people who understand the nuances of diverse ecosystems is really important, so those sort of seats, as part of that announcement we could do a call for the seats.

Brittany: Like we're looking for people who fit this criteria, this will be, we want community input and feedback on that, I would love thoughts here, it may be too ambitious to have an official vote and election process, but maybe if people are able to be suggested, then considered, based on their merits then accepted into the board with community feedback. That may be the first low process or first foray into an unstructured governance around board seats. So that's very top of mind going into this next week for me.

Lane: Brittany, thank you for sharing that, just curious, do you have a target size for the board?

Brittany: I think odd numbers sound good? I think in the beginning the original MVP is a three person board, because we have to have it to get started, so if we were let's say, a five person board, it would give us two seats to use with the informal process in governance. It's pretty standard in a lot of bylaws I've read, of having the foundation require everyone to get fired after one year of service then they can voted back on the board.

Brittany: That way there is a forcing function that if people aren't adding value, then we can get them off kind of quickly, then rethink how we're structuring it. That will give people a twelve month window, obviously if they were terrible we would kick them off beforehand, but we could expand the board beyond, I think ZCash has a larger board. I also think that, what I've learned recently from the Linux foundation, is they have a technical committee which is separate from their governing board of the organization.

Brittany: That technical community is another great place to have a number of people who come together and help determine what the future of the product is, separate from the people who are thinking about hiring, firing, salaries, and all that good stuff. Potentially using that as another avenue to add some really great technical folks and their role is very different.

Lane: I just wanted to say I really like the idea of firing everyone after a year, I think defaults are really important, and I think if the default is that you have to earn your position, that's great.

Brittany: Yeah, in Singapore it was a default for their foundations, that's where I learned about it, and they actually had a lottery that every year someone has to get fired. It's totally by chance, so basically you want to do a good job so you're not pushy, so that if you're the person who gets fired, you can always get asked to rejoin but if you are not sort of upholding your worth then you're gone.

Jason: That was excellent, I love that as well, I've always said that term limits are something that could really save us from a lot of things that happen in governments, so I am all about that and I think that's a fun way to go about thing. One question I had for you, when it comes to the website, I'm curious - we talked a little about domain names, I'm curious about design, open sourcing the code, how can we get involved?

Brittany: The process is community-built versus quick-and-fast with community feedback afterwards, and I think I've taken the quick-and-fast. We will be using stacks.org, which was a domain name a team member picked up a long time ago, so all of that will be probably in the next 30 to 60 days. It's all managed under a PBC thing for security and structure, but that will get moved over to the foundation as well. The logo and everything is very basic, I had a team member basically take the logo and turn it black, so that's the MVP logo for now. That could be open to feedback and new improvements on it.

Brittany: The twitter handle will be @stacksorg, as part of it, so these things have just started to spin up. I don't think the website is viewable now, it's only in edit mode, but we were going to publish it live with an announcement. I can probably drop in just like a draft URL, it's very basic.

Lane: So, I just checked, I'm not sure if it's intentional or not, but there is a website up now at stacks.org.

Jason: For me, it redirects.

Lane: Yeah, it redirects to stackstoken.com, exactly, ok sorry I see the word foundation here for "the foundation of", it's lowercase "f", nevermind, I got it.

Jason: And Brittany, depending on if they want to share a draft version, or even just a screen shot to see where things are going with the group and anything else. I'm sure there are some of us out there, we would love to provide feedback!

Brittany: Yeah, definitely, the easiest is that I could make a few screenshots and share them in a doc that people can comment on. It's very limited, imagine a white background with black text and that's pretty much it. It needs a lot of improvement for other people to weigh in and contribute, a blank canvas in a lot of ways.

Jason: Go ahead.

Brittany: Maybe I can share it, I'd have to log in, there are some passwords and stuff so it might be a little tedious.

Jason: Well, I think that just about covers everything from your update, is that right?

Brittany: Yep, that's it from my end.

Jason: Perfect, so we will kind of roll into some of our remaining topics here. I know we are passing 7:40am, but if everyone wants to hang out for a little bit, there were a few items that I wanted to bring up again much like we were talking about the research observer and code of conduct.

## Open Discussion Topics

### Languages and Translation

Jason: One of the topics that Kieran brought up, which I know he's not here today, we talked about languages and translation. First, kind of starting on the topic of the survey, and how we can make sure we capture and get as many languages as possible so that's not a main blocker for people. We also wanted to talk about how overall, we can make sure we do some really good translate efforts for what we are doing as the foundation.

Jason: One small update I can include, we are actually working with another group to try and translate Blockstack Connect right now, so I've got my fingers crossed that we do everything right and that gets approved, but we're doing that as a community effort. In the same way that we are doing that, I'm hoping we can use that methodology to help translate what we are doing here as well.

Jason: I do see some progress that we can make on that subject, but I'm curious if anybody just had some comments or any other input on languages and translations.

Lane: Just a quick thought, I think translations are an excellent candidate for bounties, they are small tasks, well-defined, fairly objective, yes, you need someone to review the translation to make sure it's not just google translate output or something, but I've seen this work well in other communities. When there is a foundation and that foundation has resources at its disposal to do things like grants and bounties I think this would be a good starting point. It rallies the community, right? If you have people all around the world it's something to get excited about.

Jenny: Lane, I was going to say we put out bounties for translations for documentation around testnet, and I just shared those around yesterday and we've gotten a couple of responses. It's made pretty clear there that no simple google translate will fly, we can check those so please don't do that, but I'm really looking forward to, it'll be interesting to see because it's technical documentation. So however people work with that, and I can report on the success of that here in case that's something we want to do moving forward with the foundation.

Jason: Yeah, I love it, what we've been doing with the other group is we found a react package we are working with, we're trying to put everything into JSON files coming out of a spreadsheet automatically, so we're trying to figure out a process. And that's more, watching your process Jenny, watching this process with this group, seeing how we can integrate that all together I think we're gonna come up with a really fun to make sure everything is internationalized.

Jason: Any other comments on the topic of languages and translations?

Lane: Sorry something just came to mind, we talked about, I think it was last week, the survey being in multiple languages, and I think I may have dropped the ball on this. I think I was supposed to edit the survey and make it clear that you can respond in any language. I will add that text now, if there's anything else that needs to be done with the survey, I know we're talking about winding it down, yeah, but if anything else let me know.

Jason: I think that'd be excellent, just if we had that small note in the beginning that says "hey, reply in the language you feel comfortable with", that would definitely be our quickest action item first. So I appreciate that, thank you for that.

Jason: And with that, I think it pretty much covers the topic, it'll probably end up being a rolling one like some of these others, but I'm excited because in that sense we really get to dig into what the question is and how we want to answer it. We'll keep going from that one.

### Shared Resources

Jason: Another topic I had on the agenda was shared resources, and this comes from a GitHub issue we opened a little ways back. The idea here is as the foundation is formed, as we're getting things together, we're going to want to share a few things: a Zoom account, a Youtube account, probably other accounts related directly to Stacksgov. My biggest ask from this one was actually from the Blockstack community, and I need to express this in the chat as well, what would be the best way to share a Blockstack ID for a corporation?

Jason: I'm interested in this topic because I see it as, you know we think of everything as individual users, but I do see some use cases where this would be possible, and I'm curious what's been done in other ecosystems or what people would recommend here, but it's not something we have to get too deep into today, just something I wanted to bring some awareness to.

Jason: To Matt's question, "can you create a multisig wallet?", well, anybody can! We don't have one at this point, so it would be really interesting to see. And those are the kind of things that I want to start probing questions for, what do we need as the foundation? If we're going to talk about a multisig wallet, if we're going to talk about voting, these might be longer-term project type items, but they are things once we identify then we can start putting some power behind to build.

Lane: Action item. Make that list!

Jason: Oh yeah, list of lists!

Jason: Does anybody else have any thoughts on the shared accounts, or should we move on to the next item?

Brittany: Good question, not that I have any direct answers yet.

Lane: We need a shared zoom account, that might be an easy first thing to try, or not, or we use Jitsi or something (separate topic, sorry)

Jason: Yeah, that's definitely one of the things, but either way whether it's a shared Zoom account and then we use an issue to move into Jitsi, or we move over or whatever, I think these are great discussion items to bring up. So we have that one on our list, and I think we're ready to move on from there.

### Founding Document Review

Jason: The final one that I have on the list, I kind of threw on last minute, it was from the proposals repository, issue number nine about the founding documents. And now that we are getting to this early stage of the foundation, I think it's great to look at this again where we're talking about things like mission statement, vision statement, values, code of conduct, constitution, all our basics for getting things started. So there's been a lot of great information and comments going back and forth there, and I'd love to see everybody start to provide input as we are getting close to that stage where over the next week or two here it would be really useful.

Brittany: Absolutely, I think the timing on that is great, any entity somewhere on the legal/structural side, the bylaws are an important part. Those bylaws can be amended, added to, with board approval, and there is governance to those things. I think establishing them with a lot of transparency in the beginning is key. Those are not completed, those are not published, they will go into effect with the first board meeting or something, so there can be some rough governance around them. That actually gives us some time.

Brittany: As you said, we're getting to that point where having a code of conduct, if we can get that done as a group, that's great. If we can weigh in on the mission and values, and some of those statements, those are great, too. Yeah, happy to break into smaller groups and work on that if people want to do that, might be a faster way to iterate.

Jason: Excellent, and I agree, thank you for that and I look forward to seeing some of that form. I like long-form documents and I like reading things, so when it comes to those type of things I get excited.

Jason: Any other comments around the founding documents, or any other agenda items that people would like to address today before we close out the call?

Lane: Text message from Matt here.

Jason: Than you Matt! He shared a link there that we can include in the docs, I did start a new issue around a bunch of resources, but I don't think I've seen that one yet. I'll make sure it gets added there as well. Starting to reorganize some of the resources, like I said in the beginning.

https://blockcommons.red/crypto-governance-research/overviews/

Jason: Oh and I really did want to give one big shout out to Juliet as well, I know she wasn't here on the call. The two forum posts she did I think were excellent, we had one based around the survey and taking the survey, and the other was a working group update which is something we've been trying to formalize as part of this process, and I actually liked seeing it on the forum. I'm going to propose an issue where we can still do the updates in GitHub, but maybe those should be published and gives us another way to say "hey, this is what we're doing!"

Lane: I agree, that's a great way to make sure they get in front of the whole community, super quick thought on the founding documents thing, I know this has come up a few times, I know Brittany has mentioned this a few times, so the ZCash has made all their founding paperwork and documents and everything open source. It's all on their website, it's really a fantastic resource, it's definitely something we should be aware of as we're figuring out our own founding documents. Yeah, we can include a link to that.

https://www.zfnd.org/about/incorporation-docs/

Jason: Perfect, thank you for that, do we have anything else that we would like to cover today on the call?

Brittany: If you want to see a preview of the website then I can share it to you, via screen share, so folks can view the screen.

### Stacks Foundation Website Preview

Jason: Sure, did you want to share that here, or afterward?

Brittany: I can share it here real quick if we're done.

Jason: The beginning!

Brittany: Yeah, so as you can see the logo looks very familiar, and the sentence here I can share it so people get feedback, there will be these different things, some of the text is still being edited, but basically connecting into these working groups, the calls that we have, things that are coming soon that aren't here yet, news and connection to a blog, joining the community, and building connect to existing resources in Blockstack. Fairly simple, like I said, but kind of the infrastructure that gives us a place for people to subscribe, capture content that way, or direct them to things like Discord or Telegram.

Lane: That's so exciting, thank you for sharing that, it's great to see a home for all this stuff we've been working on.

Brittany: Yeah, I know a lot of it's on GitHub, so a lot of these links, we actually had a whole list of links but they all went to the same GitHub so we cut it down and a little more editing here.

Jason: Still, I think it's really exciting to see a preview, so very cool and thank you for sharing that. And I think that pretty much ends everything here on the call today. So our next meeting is going to be next week on May 13, same time, and we'll have a new agenda item posted up as well as the recording and notes for this one later today.

Jason: With that, thank you all for being here, I appreciate it and I look forward to seeing you next week!
