# 20200408 Governance Working Group Call 7

Jason (@whoabuddy) is hosting the meeting today.

## Standups! What are you working on?

### Jenny

Trying to up number of participants in survey, included in Blockstack's newsletter yesterday, and tweeted out last night too.

No blockers, good to discuss on this call: writing the blog, or an update on the work we've been doing, great to showcase all the research to the broader community.

### Phillip

Blocker: time. a lot ot learn but advancing.

### Jason

More github management: need to publish an update for last week, going to remove survey repo and integrate into resources (plus all related linking/documentation).

### Lane

We're at 39 survey responses (+31 since release), really exciting to see, thank you Jenny for mentioning in the newsletter. Would still love to see us get to 100, but almost halfway there!

All one on one interview notes [have been published](https://github.com/stacksgov/resources/tree/master/interviews)

No major update on the governance proposal, last week we copied over parts of it to the [new proposals repository](https://github.com/stacksgov/proposals/issues), some comments and questions have come through, this is where it stands as of last week and the outstanding part is the foundation governance and will get an update from Brittany on PBC side.

I wrote a "standard operating procedures" doc [for stacksgov project management](https://github.com/stacksgov/pm/pull/23) and could use everyone's feedback and suggestions! Idea originally proposed by Brittany, as the initiative grows, would be best to record best practices. how to run these calls including setting up ahead of time, running the call, what happens when it's over. Also regular updates and how to manage the github organization, what the repos are for, and a bit about the Discord chat and the Discourse forum. Did his best to do a brain dump, but please submit proposals, notes, etc and we will merge the pull request in after.

I'm working [on a SIPs proposal](https://github.com/stacksgov/pm/issues/22) - based on Ethereum EIPs, Zcash ZIPs, Bitcoin BIPs and others. Not ready to share yet but will do so soon. Main deliverable right now around SIP process, doing some reading/homework on other projects, "*IP projects". How they happen, how those procedures apply or don't apply, and how we might want to improve that process or change it. Should be ready in the next few days, any ideas or comments please share now.

## Community survey

Lane: Mentioned it a few times - question we should ask ourselves, what do we want to do with the results? at what point do we want to begin peeking at them? waiting for the number to kick up right now. Do we want to begin sharing? Wait for some point? How to share the results?

Phillip: timing for results? need that to process and generate conclusions, the more time the better

Lane: good question, "our" initial plan (discussion with Brittany), based on the paid typeform account. Survey would run until the end of this month so three more weeks to gather responses. If people feel this is not sufficient then let us know what you think.

Phillip: so we have to give effort to make more people respond? maybe the best way is to do a personalized incentive? talk to each one - did you fill out the survey?

Jenny: think we have pretty good distribution from the April newsletter (pretty large email list), that will be going out this week, would probably wait on personal incentives and see what the results are from the newsletter. could be a good route to go toward the end of the 3 week period.

## Blog Post Idea / Outline

Jenny: no other major thoughts - but want to ask if everyone feels ready, or if we want to wait for a milestone. The work we've been doing is really interesting, if we want participation from other community members could be a good way to go about it, how to structure / how to report back to the group, any initial thoughts we have then we can discuss.

The process of getting the blog post up would be fairly simple, if we can draft it and send to Mitchell it will be easy enough. Any thoughts everyone?

Lane: think it's a great idea, been discussing from way back, spreading the word and letting a broader set of people see what is going on. question I'm asking myself - what is the core message? what is the call to action? because we are doing a lot of things.

Jenny: think the initial motivation is that this would help with distribution for the survey, could be a good opportunity to showcase all the different sets of expertise within the group, everyone coming from a different background with their own personal interests, impressed with the initial discussion and last week we had Harold's presentation on the research he's done, the perspective of so many community members, might help people pull the trigger on participating. can get involved regardless of what your background is, and __everyone interested in the success of the ecosystem has a stake in the work we're doing.__

Jason: This question came up recently with CoronaTracker, what is Blockstack doing for governance? A blog post like that would be a great resource to share.

Jenny: absolutely, since Github is standard operating procedure let's make that work, maybe open an issue, could go faster if we crowdsource material from this group. wanted to get a temp check today.

Lane: ask about timing, connection to survey, should this happen in the next week?

Jenny: if yes to helping with survey, maybe sooner, but don't want to add onto workload beyond what we have already. if we can make it easy as in submitting thoughts on github to turn that into a workable draft, I encourage us to do it. Depends on whether we feel comfortable and we have the capacity.

Phillip: the summary of what we are doing is a list of questions we want to answer, way to explain that's why we have a survey, here is how to particpate, and to try and answer these questions. there is no definite answer yet. that ask for help and participation is a nice call for action. we still have the time to do that.

Juliet: also put together a list of questions raised in the group initially, many have been answered, been meaning to get this to a forum post but happy to throw those things into an issue on github.

Brittany: love the idea of crowdsourcing, what's important to the community, help answer questions for others.

Jenny: next step she can take, can post some questions and topic ideas to github, make it easier to drop in their comments. she can start on that very soon, thanks everyone!

## Stacks Foundation Update (from PBC)

Brittany: we've talked to our tax team, helps determine structure and what works best, where we are at now: most operations in the US, so exploring a US foundation. there are a few different types: 501(c)(3) charitable org (Zcash), other foundations that can exist: c6, c7, and c4, more like industry organizations such as the american bar association (industry nonprofit), main distinction between types is how they receive funding and activities they can do.

When talking with people on the tax side, if we are exploring this route: will donations come in from community members? will we use other fundings? key question.

Another key question around what types of activities the org can do: are we giving out grants? hosting fellowships? program like app mining? how will that impact our status and operate in that way.

Since it's relatively new, we want to make sure to get an expert opinion and abide by all the requirements, with the knowledge some of our consensus mechanisms in blockstack are pretty novel, the foundation will take over the stacks treasury, would be eligible for stacking, maybe BTC rewards could fund it without any other sources. Does that count as income? Would we lose charitable status? questions are being explored.

Eliminating the Singapore and other international foundations was a key learning for them, learned through talking to peers (can see in notes around Algorand), benefits of doing US is there aren't as many restrictions around off-shore board meetings and members. Seemed very limiting in how we could think of a board especially if it requires international travel. How do we be as inclusive as possible, and how do we think globally, as we grow and evolve how are we not limited in what we an achieve in the ecosystem.

Next steps: have a convo with Deloitte later today, will help provide some outlines of a c3 vs c4 vs c6, and guidance as to which will make sense to allow them to do the activities she outlined.

We will be drafting an application for that type of organization, would love to share with the community, we've been working with outside sources but sharing everything created thus far with this group, the proposal, survey feedback, all shared as part of this process. Feedback from this group will be realy helpful.

Any questions to talk through? keep us in the loop as we progress through stages of understanding.

Harold: thank you kindly for that, exciting to see a way for the foundation to be self-sufficient, leveraging what we have with the novel consensus algorithm. The public utility path that Blockstack has paved - is this is a viable means? Maybe attaching a governance-specific blockchain for self-sufficiency?

Brittany: It would be the normal Stacks blockchain, PBC cannot earn BTC rewards as a for-profit entity (assumption, may change), but for the foundation it would potentially qualify to do stacking. Can have a more firm answer on that later.

Harold: curious if down the line, with app chains, a chain specific to governance.

Brittany: thanks for sharing, know that app chains have come up on the business models, thanks for mentioning that.

Lane: had a thought - two sides of a coin. think the self sustainability is very exciting, PoX gives a potential route to that, just sorting out the kind of possibilities. There is a risk to highlight super briefly, his perspective that other foundations have done very poorly is lack of accountability. if you've read what i've written, it's a big thing he cares/thinks about, in the pre-crypto world foundations in an abstract sense that they do things brittany described: grants, funding, etc, but have to go through donors to raise funds.

What we've seen in the cyrpto foundations that since they can mint their own money, it leads to sub-optimal behavior on behalf of the organizations. in the absence of relying on donors, what could those look like?

Brittany: a great point to bring up to be mindful and aware of. industry associations require paying members to exist, if a 501(c)(3) donations have to be a certain portion of operating budget, has to be through a large number of individual donors or company donors. loops could be built in. foundations have a 3 year grace period. like the idea of being accountable.

Dan: another question/consideration, related to the Justin Sun takeover of STEEM, given the stacks foundation would control treasury, if we end up doing some kind of on-chain voting, how do these organizational structures prevent - how do we maintain the accountability? might be repeating the same concern as Lane? how do we avoid the justin sun thing on steem? not the same because he bought a company that controlled steem tokens, but something to keep in the back of the mind.

Lane: add on to what you're saying, might not technically be the right term, but how to avoid "capture". there are insidious forms of capture and accountability and transparency are two defense mechanisms.

Brittany: would love to get feedback from this group with others who have done more research / exploration into these subjects. ways to create resistance against those. examples of most recent ones and what's gone wrong.

Lane: great topics to include in the blog post, super timely and relevant.

Harold: this reminds him of what he learned in joining the meeting with Jenny over game theory, slightly different topic but could apply to accountability, the game theories reference how important integrity is important in the blockchains. how things have been built by PBC, things coming in the future, lots of other possibilities that add integrity to this blockchain that others don't have. Dissuade from the only incentive to game the network. Accountability question brings to mind possibilities building this type of integrity into the governance system to broaden the donors. the breadth of interested donors to lane's point. in the way of important things: ecological sustainbility going into the future, business models the community is privy to, what kind of models those are, as it relates to ecological sustainability and paradigm shifts in data collection and consumption. added layers to governance.

Jason: I think that's amazing, looking at the opportunity we have here as we think through, just like Jude did the [blog post on the common smart contract issues](https://blog.blockstack.org/bringing-clarity-to-8-dangerous-smart-contract-vulnerabilities/), we can look at what other governance issues are out there, and how the steem community has migrated to the hive community and some successes and failures with that. One of the things that has come up in the past for me is having no main one entity able to make decisions, in a way like "having two keys to turn the nuke", the phrase I think of, to add a check and balance procedure that will make more sense in the long run.

Lane: that's a great example, mentioned before, a lot we can learn form Zcash, one thing unique is multisig on the brand: between the electric coin company and the foundation. there are some interesting ideas there. it has not been all smooth sailing, there was a dispute resolved last year, but multisig great example of accountability.

Brittany: agree, great way to frame it.

## Any other updates?

Phillip: comment, got stuck with microphone, many institutions in crisis now, governments in crisis, people don't believe in them. in the internet arena - all this icon/NICs that manage DNS getting a lot of pressure from the people, how they are dealing with the management of the domains. here in Chile and other countries suffering because of that. a lot of resources, managing that, accountability issue is getting stronger and stronger in how we do that. definitely an important aspect to consider, how we deal with that, how the foundation will get resources, etc. Very important aspect. Before there was no issue about that, nowadays everything very complicated.

Jason: I think that's an interesting point, if we look at the bigger companies that handle the large portions of Internet traffic around the world, you're layer 3's of the world, start as a simple concept that expands and grows. As that happens you gain new abilities, ideally if you are doing it right, you will be entrusted with more and more and try to hold up that integrity. Definitely a good point and ties into what we are talking about.

Any other updates, or anything to add? If not then thank you everyone for being on the call today, always a pleasure to go through this together!

## Next/recurring call schedule

April 15th, 10am Eastern, 7am Pacific.
