# 20200325 Governance Working Group Call 5

## Quick round of intros

skip today, drop from agenda, separate more social call or other ways for intros if needed. more time to focus on the agenda.

## What happened over the past week?

Lane: last week factored in feedback from the forums, gotten a lot of feedback, thank you everyone for taking the survey. Now ready to share it - tweet went out this morning! "The baby's out in the world".

Twitter Post: https://twitter.com/blockstack/status/1242784590378553345

Lane: How can we amplify?

Jenny: share post with any of your own audience, twitter, other social media, will check progress in a few days to see if distribution is very effective. going for a solid number, the more help the better. if we are not seeing enough responses, we can pivot and take a new approach. Easiest way to distribute.

Lane: target of 100 responses, other ideas like picking random set of investors, open to other ideas - feel free to share!

Lane: Finished 8th interview last week, cleaned up notes from 5/8, given interviewees chance to review and cleared for public sharing, planning to finish last 3 this week. Pausing at 8, good high-level sense of what people are feeling, but could be value doing more in the future. Pausing to focus on governance proposal.

Outstanding question - sharing the notes from the interviews, some concerns about privacy, open to thoughts on splitting up per question.

Lane: Governance proposal almost in a place comfortable sharing it with the working group, Brittany highlighted a few points to weigh in on first (to clarify PBC's perspective)

Brittany: questions around structural questions, setting up the new entity requires tax advice, working with outside counsel, and the inside counsel advising on requirements, still in research phase.
- number of board members, where meetings are held, tax regulations
- number of open questions she is getting answered this week
- could impact governance proposal depending on restrictions/rules
- goal is to get clarity on the requirements and how it will impact governance proposal
- having a conversation with the tax counsel on Friday
- until those are finalized, will not be able to move forward

Lane: some context, Lane's deliverable to PBC in contract with PBC, taken shape as a monolithic proposal, includes broader challenges in blockchain ecosystems, high-level governance of the ecosystem, and talks more about the foundation governance and structure. May make sense to break this up into a set of proposals, with one piece focusing on the foundation. There are pieces of it that should be shared now, including the general piece. Feel free to share thoughts.

## Standup! (Lane)

Lane: planning to continue on the proposal, continue cleaning up notes from 1 on 1 interviews, only blocker is working through legal requirements with Brittany,

## Standup! (Jenny)

Jenny: how the working groups work, aligning on goals and mission. at the moment focuses are distinct. proposal about the survey going on, foundation formation on the horizon. Did want to drop the question of "what will our role be moving forward?"

The PoX group, there is an expiration date, when Stacks 2 launches that group may disband. Governance is an ongoing effort, so what would our role be moving forward?

Is the way that Blockstack governance in the ecosystem fair and beneficial to its stakeholders? Ask week over week and develop a metric to see if we are moving the needle on that. A simple mental model for others to consume. Not something to solve today, but wanted to put it out there, and the role of this group is big on the success of governance in the blockstack ecosystem.

If you have any ideas toward making these groups more profitable / productive, please share. Had a great chat with Juliet and working to apply any best practices to what we are doing.

Brittany: Thanks Jenny, that's a great thing to consider, and could be redirected to the forum instead of the calls.

Lane: Resources, templates, best practices, done a pretty good job with some of that so far. Some meta thought on how to make these "templates", like the github repos, there are ideas there that could be shared across working groups and good information to work with together. A knowledge base or set of resources for working group needs would be a cool thing to have.

Jenny: happy to have others drive the discussion, love the idea of community leads, we do it informally with the working groups, but can look at a process to have leaders, or nominate leaders, like nominating Juliet for being observer on PBC calls. Can see others taking leads. Have a great small core group now, but as it grows, it can get unwieldly. It will likely be outlined in the proposal but looking forward to that as well.

Lane: There is an inherent tension as we move forward, on one hand, core focus group and we've gotten to know each other, and his inclination is that "we don't need to formalize things, it's a small group, we know each other", the lesson from other communities, if you don't do that then it doesn't scale. As it moves to 60, 600 people, there's tension there, it can be weird to say "there should be a leader" but it is a good idea at this point.

## Standup! (Juliet)

Working on a forum post, what we've been working on our working group, will pass around to everyone here today when finished. Still going through academic literature, and it's been an interesting process. Also wanted to jump in on the points Lane made about the process, it's a fantastic idea to put a structure together, this group is definitely going to grow in the future and it won't be our cozy group of 5 or 7 that's been here in the past.

No blockers moving forward.

Lane: any preliminary findings you'd like to share?

Juliet: not on the academic side, but have been reading Primavera's work and there are some items that dovetail with what Harold is saying. We can bring it up in conversation when the post is ready to go.

Lane: Thank you, your ask would be to review and provide feedback, so we will be sure to do that.

## Stacksgov Icon

Lane: tiny thing, pasting the link in, it's not insignificant in the sense that branding is important, but if you'd like to share more.

Jason provided some info and background around proposed icon design.

Github Issue: https://github.com/stacksgov/pm/issues/10

Proposed Icon:
![Proposed Stacksgov Icon](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/9038904/76906806-fc2ac800-6861-11ea-9169-71c82fb74f06.png)

Sounds like consensus! Will start to put across all outlets.

## One-on-one interviews and notes

Juliet: will you be able to wrap up discussion with individuals so the rest of us can see the notes?

Lane: It's not up to me on when they respond and how they feel, do we just move forward and share the other ones? Do we chop it up and collate around particular questions and share around those? Do not have a strong feeling, but want to get it into everyone's hands.

Juliet: we should be able to see the other ones, thought that person was still thinking about it, didn't realize they didn't want to share at all.

Lane: no reason not to move forward, that person is still considering, may redact part of that, don't see a major blocker here, everyone has expressed they are ok with it, think we can do it this week

Juliet: great, looking forward to it

Lane: will drop into github as raw text / markdown files, if the format should be different, let him know

Dan: didn't see the results of our discussion

Lane: yours is one of the three, it's coming soon, nothing will be shared publicly until the interviewee has a chance to scrub out anything they don't want shared publicly

## Stacks Foundation update (from PBC)

Brittany: mentioned earlier, some of the work is around the structure of the new entity, as we talked about last week, the best way to proceed is to be truly independent of PBC as to not have any bias, getting that entity setup is important. Have done some research on the legal side, the Singapore foundation is highlighted and may fit our needs, doing more analysis on the tax side, may be a tax restriction that if board members are not present in person, then they are not able to vote. If the in person meeting takes place in a certain jurisdiction, such as US, then there may be US tax implications.

Trying to figure out the best way to work with board members, trying to avoid additional complexity, may be forced to revisit another type of entity, or if we need to create another legal structure around it. This is somewhat vague, but came from talking to other nonprofits and foundations in this space, problems they had after incorporation. Doing their best to learn from their issues so they can deliver this independent entity. People on the board can actually vote/participate, community can be involved in a seamless way, will have an update on the legal entity side soon.

Lane was discussing on the proposal, been collaborating with him, trying to construct a structure where they can get feedback. Have been looking at other foundations, ZCash really transparent, would love everyone to take a look at how it works. They have an advisory council, any member of the community can be on the council, cannot violate TOS. You can be denied access or removed, but otherwise open, and can be 100 members strong, surface issues, voting on issues, highlight things for implementation. Like this model because everyone can be involved. Do not require people have their real names, but do have checks in the background to make sure people aren't tryiing to use multiple votes. The power of what the entity can do largely resides with the advisory council. The board can veto as necessary for the mission, but so far, it's worked seamlessly. Having a really open structure as part of the foundation executes ideas, and having another small group of people help enact any final decisions, works very well. Wanted to surface that since we can view how they work with the community and include all members.

Would love poeple to look at the ZCash advisory board and see what they think of it, to drive a new discussion on what we like, don't like, and what we would like to see.

Zcash Foundation: https://www.zfnd.org/
Zcash Foundation Governance: https://www.zfnd.org/governance/

Lane: 2nd that ZCash is an excellent resource, open sourced everything they are doing, everything in the public domain

Brittany: having learned more about them, and with what we want to do, maybe secondary goal is we can create a model that others would look to and value as working well. We have a lot of people we can learn from and have an advantage they don't have when less info was available.

Juliet: think the process sounds good with respect to the foundation, need to take a deep look at the tax implications and other implications of the structure selected, so it's great ot hear that is really deeply looked at. If there are any other issues that come up with the structure and how it would impact governance moving forward it would be great to hear about that, when you know more of what the structure is going to be outside of just the foundation concept.

Brittany: call with tax people on Friday, will hopefully have more info to share after the call, and will share it as soon as we have it. Not sharing more to date - if it is true there is a lot of complexity there, we may have to go back to the drawing board. Trying to give more things to dig into then be distracted by things that may not happen.

## Any other updates?

(silence)

Lane: items from last time still on agenda

### extend call to 90min

Lane: extend call to 90 min? agreed last call, official call at 60 minutes, can have optional extended time topics to stay later. Did add one to this call: Harold proposed in working group channel, but unfortunately he's not on the call.

Lane: does anyone have any other input on the call length, or options?

Jason: it was nice to have the extra time

Juliet: it was nice to have that extra time

Lane: will end the call now and offer to switch host at the end

## Closing

Lane: reiterating that no individual person should be thought of a single point of failure, a bottleneck, in any of these procedures. moderating github, maintianing repos, merging pull requests, hosting this call, and everything else. It's an open call or participation: if anyone wants to host the call (agenda, reminder, host/moderate), help on github, just send a DM on Discord and he will be happy to add.

A few reasons for that: anti-frigility, governance should continue even if he isn't available, and an accountability issue to have others.

Juliet: happy to request stepping up for being a moderator on occasion, being able to assist on the agenda and all of that on github.

Lane: send me your handle then we can move forward, trading off can help, much less of a burden per person

Jenny: happy to help moderate as well

Lane: anything else to discuss, or anyone want to stick around?

(silence)

Lane: bye everyone!
